The appellant and the respondent are pharmaceutical companies manufacturing various pharmaceutical products.
The two Companies had taken over the assets and business of the erstwhile Cadila Group after its restructuring under Sections 391 and 394 of the Companies Act.
One of the conditions in the scheme of restructuring of the Cadila Group was that both the appellant and the respondent got the right to use the name ?cadila?
as a corporate name.
The present proceedings arise from the suit for injunction which had been filed by the appellant against the respondent in the District Court at Vadodara.
The case of the appellant was that its drug ?Falcigo?
contains artesunate for the treatment of cerebral malaria commonly known as ?Falcipharum?.
It is, thereafter, that since October 1996 the appellant claimed to have started the manufacture and sale of drug ?Falcigo?
all over India.
It may here be noticed that Schedule ?H?
drugs are those which can be sold by the chemist only on the prescription of the doctor but Schedule ?L?
drugs are not sold across the counter but are sold only to the hospitals and clinics.
The Extra Assistant Judge, Vadodara by his order dated 30-5-1998 dismissed the interim injunction application.
The appeal filed by the appellant before the High Court met with no success.
When the special leave petition came up for hearing, detailed arguments were heard and, for the reasons to be given, this Court did not interfere with the orders passed by the courts below but gave directions regarding expeditious disposal of the suit.
The reason for not interfering with the order appealed against was that there may be possibility of evidence being required on merits of the case and directions were given for speedy trial of the suit.
Whether the respondent's proposed mark is deceptively similar to the appellant's registered trade mark.
In an action for infringement, the plaintiff must make out that the use of the defendant's mark is likely to deceive, but where the similarity between the plaintiff's and the defendant's mark is so close either visually, phonetically or otherwise and the court reaches the conclusion that there is an imitation, no further evidence is required to establish that the plaintiff's rights are violated.
When the two marks are not identical, the plaintiff would have to establish that the mark used by the defendant so nearly resembles the plaintiff's registered trade mark as is likely to deceive or cause confusion and in relation to goods in respect of which it is registered.
The purpose of the comparison is for determining whether the essential features of the plaintiff's trade mark are to be found in that used by the defendant.
On the facts of that case this Court came to the conclusion that taking into account all circumstances the words ?Protovit?
and ?Dropovit?
were so dissimilar that there was no reasonable probability of confusion between the words either from visual or phonetic point of view.
The use by the defendant of the trade mark of the plaintiff is not essential in an action for passing off, but is the sine qua non in the case of an action for infringement.
In other words in the case of unregistered trade marks, a passing-off action is maintainable.
The passing-off action depends upon the principle that nobody has a right to represent his goods as the goods of somebody.
What the Registrar has to see is whether looking at the circumstances of the case a particular trade mark is likely to deceive or to cause confusion.
The principles of law applicable to such cases are well settled.
It is for him to satisfy the Registrar that his trade mark does not fall within the prohibition of Section 8 and therefore it should be registered.
The Deputy Registrar came to the conclusion that the two words ?Glucovita?
and ?Gluvita?
were not visually or phonetically similar and that there was no reasonable likelihood of any deception being caused by, or any confusion arising from the use of the respondent's proposed mark.
Against the decision of the Deputy Registrar, the appellant filed an appeal before the High Court.
The Division Bench, on an appeal, however, set aside the decision of the Single Judge and restored the decision of the Deputy Registrar.
The view taken was that considering the way the words were pronounced in English, the one was likely to be mistaken for the other.
It is also important that the marks must be compared as wholes.
The trial court will now decide the suit keeping in view the observations made in this judgment.
Appeal disposed of.a