The appellant sought an injunction to restrain the respondent from using the word "picnic" as it allegedly amounted to infringement of the appellant's registered trademark for the use of the word "piknik".
The respondent was found using the mark "picnic" for chocolates.
The respondent contended that "Cadbury's picnic" was introduced in 1998 for chocolates.
The High Court allowed the appeal of the respondent-defendant and set aside the order of temporary injunction.
Whether the defendant's use of the mark "picnic" amounted to trademark infringement and passing off.
Whether the plaintiff's trademark was valid.
Whether the High Court was right in refusing temporary injunction.
Whether the appellate court was right in interfering with the discretion of the trial court and in vacating injunction.
The Supreme Court held that on an examination of the relative strength of the pleas, the chances, on facts, were more in favour of the defendant rather than in favour of the plaintiff and that the plaintiff was not entitled to temporary injunction.
The Court also held that the judgment in the passing-off case could not be relied upon by the opposite side in latter registration proceedings.
The appeal was dismissed.
In trademark cases, the tension is between protectionism on the one hand and allowing competition on the other.
The legal formalists laid down principles and legal rules, treating trademark as "property".
The tension between protectionism and competition has increased.
Section 31 raised a presumption of validity of the plaintiff's registered mark.
Hence the defendant could not be permitted to raise any plea that the word "piknik" was not "distinctive" by 17-2-1989 within Section 9.
If a trademark does not satisfy Section 9, it is to be treated as "invalid".
While Section 31 raises a presumption as to validity of registration, Section 32 bars any such question being raised after seven years, subject of course to some exceptions.
The Court held that on facts, interference was justifiable as the trial court gave importance to phonetic similarity and did not refer to the differences in essential features.