Three questions arise in this case:
Whether a Judge of the Supreme Court or a Judge of a High Court is a public servant within the meaning of Section 2 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947.
Whether a Judge of the Supreme Court or a Judge of High Court including the Chief Justice of the High Court can be prosecuted for having committed the offence of criminal misconduct as referred to in clause (e) of sub-section (1) of Section 5 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947.
Whether Section 6(1)(c) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947 is applicable to a Judge of a High Court or the Supreme Court.
A Judge of the Supreme Court and a Judge of the High Court are constitutional functionaries appointed under Article 124 and under Article 217 of the Constitution respectively.
Article 218 states that provisions of Clauses (4) and (5) of Article 124 shall apply in relation to a High Court.
The President has the power to appoint as well as to remove a Judge from his office on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity as provided in Article 124 of the Constitution.
The President shall act in accordance with advice given by the Chief Justice of India.
Whether Judges of High Courts and Supreme Court are Public Servants under Prevention of Corruption Act?
Whether Judges of High Courts and Supreme Court can be prosecuted for criminal misconduct under Prevention of Corruption Act?
Whether Section 6(1)(c) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947 is applicable to Judges of High Courts and Supreme Court?
Article 124 and Article 217 of the Constitution provide for the appointment of Judges of the Supreme Court and High Courts respectively.
Clauses (4) and (5) of Article 124 apply to a Judge of the Supreme Court and are made applicable to Judges of the High Courts by virtue of Article 218.
The President has the power to appoint and remove Judges from their office on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity.
The Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947 was enacted to suppress bribery and corruption in public administration and contains stringent provisions.
The first question is whether Judges of High Courts and Supreme Court are Public Servants under Prevention of Corruption Act.
It has been urged that Section 6(1)(c) of the Act is not applicable to a Judge of the Supreme Court or of the High Court.
Therefore, a Judge of the High Court or of the Supreme Court comes within the definition of public servant and is liable to be prosecuted under the provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act.
However, the view taken by the High Court is that Judges of the High Courts and the Supreme Court are outside the purview of the Prevention of Corruption Act, which fits in with the constitutional scheme and is also in harmony with the several nuances of the entire existing law relating to the superior Judges while the contrary view fouls with it at several junctures and leaves many gaping holes which cannot be filled by judicial exercise.
The inescapable conclusion, therefore, is that the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947, as amended by the 1964 amendment is inapplicable to Judges of the High Courts and the Supreme Court.
The second question is whether Judges of High Courts and Supreme Court can be prosecuted for criminal misconduct under Prevention of Corruption Act.
Section 5 of the Act creates an offence of criminal misconduct on the part of a public servant.
Section 5(1)(e) of the Act defines criminal misconduct as possession of pecuniary resources or property disproportionate to a public servant's known sources of income.
The fact remains that while according sanction to prosecute under Section 6 of the Act, the competent authority has to satisfy itself about the public servant's inability to satisfactorily account for possession of disproportionate assets.
Therefore, it is practically difficult to apply criminal misconduct to a Judge of a High Court or the Supreme Court.
The third question is whether Section 6(1)(c) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947 is applicable to Judges of High Courts and Supreme Court.
Clauses (4) and (5) of Article 124 which apply to a Judge of the Supreme Court are made applicable to Judges of the High Courts by virtue of Article 218.
Therefore, the President has the power to remove a Judge from his office on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity as provided in Article 124 of the Constitution.
The High Court was in error in holding that a public servant charged with having disproportionate assets in the possession for which he cannot satisfactorily account, cannot be convicted of an offence under Section 5(2) read with Section 5(1)(e) of the Act unless the prosecution disproves all possible sources of income.
The view taken by the High Court that Judges of the High Courts and the Supreme Court are outside the purview of the Prevention of Corruption Act, fits in with the constitutional scheme and is also in harmony with the several nuances of the entire existing law relating to the superior Judges while the contrary view fouls with it at several junctures and leaves many gaping holes which cannot be filled by judicial exercise.
The inescapable conclusion, therefore, is that the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947, as amended by the 1964 amendment is inapplicable to Judges of the High Courts and the Supreme Court.
If the situation has altered requiring scrutiny of the conduct of even Judges at the highest level, then the remedy lies in enacting suitable legislation for that purpose providing for safeguards to ensure independence of judiciary since the existing law does not provide for that situation.