The Indian Independence Act, 1947 (hereinafter referred to as athe Acta) was passed by the British Parliament.
This Act came into force on and from August 15, 1947, which was the appointed day and under the Act, as from the appointed day, two independent dominions were to be set up in place of the existing India known, respectively as aIndiaa and aPakistana.
Two independent dominions were set up in place of the existing Indian Union.
After the partition, Berubari Union formed part of the State of West Bengal and had been governed as such.
The Constitution of India was declared to be passed on November 26, 1949.
As already pointed out in view of the said Award, Berubari Union No. 12 was treated as part of the Province of West Bengal and as such has been treated and governed on that basis.
But the said question was raised by the Government of Pakistan in the year 1952.
Near about 1952, Pakistan alleged that under the Award, the Berubari Union should really have formed part of East Bengal.
The Prime Ministers of two countries entered into an agreement settling certain disputes including the Berubari Union and the enclaves in the East Pakistan in 1958.
This Court answered the questions as follows.
Ninth Amendment to the Constitution was made thereafter.
The writ petitions were dismissed eventually by this Court.
In 1983, writ petitions were filed in the Calcutta High Court.
In September 1983, the learned Single Judge of the Calcutta High Court dismissed the writ petitions holding, inter alia, that the implementation of the 1974 and 1982 agreements did not involve cession of Indian territory to Bangladesh.
Therefore, the implementation of the 1974 and 1982 Agreements which provided, inter alia, that the two enclaves would not be exchanged would not amount to cession of any Indian territory which would require any constitutional amendment.
It was open to India and Bangladesh to enter into a fresh treaty modifying the 1958 agreement and that was actually what had happened in the present case.
As these two enclaves were to remain as part of Bangladesh territory, these two agreements had made some provisions to enable Bangladesh to exercise its sovereignty in full over these two enclaves.
The findings and interpretation of the agreements of 1974 and 1982 were also not disputed before us.
Did the implementation of the 1974 and 1982 agreements involve cession of Indian territory to Bangladesh?
Did the agreement of 1958 between India and Pakistan become a final treaty binding on India and Bangladesh?
Did the agreements of 1974 and 1982 result in the grant of a license by India in favor of Bangladesh under Indian law or within the meaning of the Indian Easement Act?
Did the concessions given to Bangladesh over the said area amount to servitudes suffered by India in its territory?
Decision
The Division Bench of Calcutta High Court correctly noted that the learned Single Judge came to the following conclusions: Implementation of the agreements of 1974 and 1982 did not involve cession of any Indian territory to Bangladesh.
In spite of the said agreements India would retain its sovereignty, ownership and control over Teen Bigha.
In the light of authorities on International Law as noted above, and the factual findings noted above, we are of the opinion that the Division Bench came to the correct conclusion that the decision to allow Bangladesh to retain Dahagram and Angarpota under the agreements of 1974 and 1982 would not amount to cession of any part of the territory of India in favor of a foreign State.
The Division Bench held that there was no automatic transfer of Dahagram and Angarpota to India under the 1958 Agreement between India and Pakistan in the absence of a notified appointed day.
Consequently, Dahagram and Angarpota remained and still remain part of the territory of East Pakistan and subsequently Bangladesh.
In the aforesaid view of the matter, the decision to allow Bangladesh to retain Dahagram and Angarpota does not amount to cession of Indian territory in favor of Bangladesh.
Having regard to the facts found and the position of law, we are of the opinion that the High Court was right in this aspect of the conclusion.
The Division Bench held that the recital in a deed could not operate as an estoppel against the specific terms and conditions thereof.
In the agreement of 1974, it was only recorded that India would lease in perpetuity to Bangladesh the said area at Teen Bigha to connect Dahagram and Panbari Mouja of Bangladesh.
In clause 2 of the agreement of 1982, it was specifically recorded that sovereignty over the leased area would continue to vest in India.
Having examined the rights in the agreements, we are of the opinion that this did not amount to lease or surrender of sovereignty as understood in the international law.
In the instant case, the major right which had been conferred on Bangladesh was the right of free movement over the area.
A fortiori, the said transaction did not amount to cession of the said area of Teen Bigha in favor of Bangladesh.
The concessions given to Bangladesh over the said area might amount to servitudes suffered by India in its territory, as known in International Law.
The term aservitudea means nothing more than accepted restrictions and grant of servitude does not amount to cession of territory.
The Division Bench was unable to accept the contention that the use of the expression aresidual jurisdictiona in clause 9 of the agreement of 1982 indicates that India only retained residual sovereignty over the area and the de facto and real sovereignty in the said area has been surrendered to Bangladesh.
The fact that certain old disputes between India and Pakistan regarding the said 12 thanas in the Sylhet District of Assam have not been settled with Bangladesh by the said agreements of 1974 and 1982 and that might remain pending is of no relevance to the legality and validity of the said agreements.
The Division Bench expressed the view that perhaps the letters (sic leaders) of the two countries will take remedial measures.
Justice Monjula Bose delivered a separate but concurring judgment.
She held that sovereignty over the area, in fact, continued to be vested in India.
No constitutional amendment was necessary in view of the fact that Ninth Amendment had not come into effect as there was no appointed day fixed by the Parliament and the principles enunciated by the decision of this Court in A.K Roy case.
In A.K Roy case, this Court indicated the contention at p. 272 of the report that the government would be compelled to exercise its power to issue notification as to at what date the law has to come into effect.
In that view of the matter, the directions by the court to amend the law cannot and should not be given.
The court having held that Ninth Amendment to the Constitution has not come into effect and there being no cession of any part or territory or abandonment of sovereignty, there was no cause to direct the legislature to amend or pass suitable laws.
The Division Bench of Calcutta High Court held that the implementation of the 1974 and 1982 agreements did not involve cession of Indian territory to Bangladesh.
The court held that the recital in a deed could not operate as an estoppel against the specific terms and conditions thereof.
In the agreement of 1974, it was only recorded that India would lease in perpetuity to Bangladesh the said area at Teen Bigha to connect Dahagram and Panbari Mouja of Bangladesh.
In clause 2 of the agreement of 1982, it was specifically recorded that sovereignty over the leased area would continue to vest in India.
The court held that this did not amount to lease or surrender of sovereignty as understood in the international law.
The appeal was disposed of in the aforesaid light and deleting the aforesaid directions of the Division Bench and the appeal was allowed to that extent.