Six persons, who carried on the business of preparing, printing, publishing and selling text books for different classes in the schools of Punjab, under the name and style aUttar Chand Kapur & Sonsa filed a petition under Article 32 of the Constitution.
They alleged that the Education Department of the Punjab Government had issued a series of notifications since 1950 regarding the printing, publication and sale of these books which have placed unwarrantable restrictions upon their rights to carry on their business and have practically ousted them and other fellow-traders from the business altogether.
They contended that no restrictions could be imposed upon their right to carry on the trade which is guaranteed under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution by mere executive orders without proper legislation and that the legislation, if any, must conform to the requirements of clause (6) of Article 19 of the Constitution.
Whether the executive Government can carry on the business of printing and publishing text books without a specific legislation sanctioning such course?
Whether the notifications issued by the State of Punjab in pursuance of their policy of nationalisation of text books infringe the fundamental rights of the petitioners under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution?
The court held that the carrying on of the business of printing and publishing text books was not beyond the competence of the executive Government without a specific legislation sanctioning such course.
As the petitioners had no fundamental right under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution, the question whether the Government could establish a monopoly without any legislation under Article 19(6) of the Constitution was immaterial.
The court dismissed the petition with costs.
The court observed that the Indian Constitution is a written Constitution and even the legislature cannot override the fundamental rights guaranteed by it to the citizens.
However, the business which the petitioners had been carrying on was that of printing and publishing books for sale including text books used in the primary and middle classes of the schools in Punjab.
They had no right to insist on any of their books being accepted as text books.
Nobody was taking away the publishers' right to print and publish any books they like and to offer them for sale but if they had no right that their books should be approved as text books by the Government it was immaterial so far as they were concerned whether the Government approves of text books submitted by other persons who are willing to sell their copyrights in the books to them, or choose to engage authors for the purpose of preparing the text books which they take up on themselves to print and publish.
The court also noted that the executive Government of a State has power under the Constitution to carry on the trade or business subject to the control of the legislature.
If the trade or business involves expenditure of funds, it is certainly required that Parliament should authorise such expenditure either directly or under the provisions of a statute.
When it is necessary to encroach upon private rights in order to enable the Government to carry on their business, a specific legislation sanctioning such course would have to be passed.
However, in the present case, the petitioners had no fundamental right which could be said to have been infringed by the action of the Government.
This case established that the executive Government can carry on the business of printing and publishing text books without a specific legislation sanctioning such course.
It also clarified that the fundamental right to carry on trade or business guaranteed under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution is subject to reasonable restrictions imposed by the State under Article 19(6) of the Constitution.