A proprietary right in a mark can be obtained in a number of ways.
Our trade marks law is based on the English trade marks law and the English Acts.
The first Trade Marks Act in England was passed in 1875.
Then came the English Trade.
Marks Act of 1875, which was substituted later by later Acts.
Prior to the Acts, one could become a proprietor of a trade mark only by user, but after the passing of the Act of 1875, one could become a proprietor either by user or by registering the mark even prior to its user.
Now, if there is a specific agreement as to proprietorship of that mark, that agreement will govern as between the foreign owner and the Indian importer.
There is no satisfactory evidence that any watches were in fact imported into India by the applicant under any of the said three orders.
In this connection, the evidence of the said five sale memos shows that the applicant sold 215 watches in India with the mark ?Caltex?.
The Deputy Registrar found that the mark ?Caltex?
applied for by the applicant was an Importer's mark and that he was the owner thereof by selection in so far as this country was concerned.
Mr. Justice Shah has stated in his judgment that he was not inclined to agree with that finding of the Deputy Registrar.
As stated by the learned Judge, therefore, in the case of a foreign mark, a person first to introduce and use it in India would become entitled to claim it in India as the proprietor thereof.
The judgment in Impex Electrical Ld.
v. Weinbaum shows that if the foreign owner of a mark sells goods in this country, he may become the owner of that mark.
A person may become a proprietor of a trade mark in diverse ways.
In India, the mark ?Caltex?
was a totally new mark, for watches and allied goods.
We, therefore, hold that the applicant is the proprietor of that mark.
Whether the use of the mark ?Caltex?
was likely to deceive or cause confusion.
The exercise of his discretion against registration would disentitle only the applicant to use the mark.
Turning now to the first reason, the Deputy Registrar felt that there was no legal or judicial basis for exercising the discretion adversely to the applicant because of the findings of fact which he has arrived at.
A Court is, therefore, entitled to interfere with such an exercise of discretion.
This is not a case of merely a wrong appreciation of the facts before him by the Deputy Registrar.
In these circumstances, therefore, we are of the opinion that the learned Judge was justified in interfering with the exercise of his discretion by the Deputy Registrar.
The appeal, therefore, fails and is dismissed with costs.
The goods in respect of which they use the trade mark ?Caltex?
are mainly petroleum, kerosene and lubricants like greases and oils etc. To mention the mark ?Caltex?
is also to mention the name of the owner.
The applicant has given no explanation why he selected the word ?Caltex?.
He got the mark ?Sandy?
changed to ?Caltex?
only subsequently.
The applicant's selection of the mark was made, to use the words of Lord Denning in Parker-Knoll Ld.
v. Knoll International Limited, with intention to deceive and cause confusion, and he must, therefore, be given credit for success in his intention, and we should not hesitate to hold that the use of that mark is likely to deceive or cause confusion.
We are, therefore, of the opinion that if the application for registration's granted and the mark is used in connection with the goods in respect of which the application is made, it is likely to cause deception and confusion.
Mr. Rege urged that the applicant acted dishonestly in selecting the mark ?Caltex?, with the intention of trading on the wide reputation which that mark enjoys in India, that the applicant's case is not founded on truth, and that, because of these two reasons, the applicant should be held disentitled to registration under the discretionary provisions contained in cl. (c) of s. 11 of the Act.
Sub-section (4) of s. 18 also contains a provision for the exercise of discretion in accepting or refusing to register, because it provides: ?The Registrar may refuse the application or may accept it absolutely or subject to such amendments, modifications, conditions or limitations, if any, as he may think fit.?
Both these provisions confer a discretion in accepting or refusing registration.
One of the cases relied upon by Kerly in support of that statement is that of Hassan El-Madi's Application for Trade Mark12.
In our opinion, the prohibition contained in cl. (e) of s. 11 must, therefore, be restricted to some illegality inherent in the mark itself and not de hors the mark itself.
Mr. Rege's contention cannot be considered under the provisions of s. 11(e).
There is no absolute right to registration, and the Registrar has discretion to refuse registration.
But what has been stated is that the Registrar should in the exercise of his discretion refuse to grant the application for registering the mark.
This is a clear allegation of dishonesty, and the plea was taken before the Deputy Registrar before the proceedings before him concluded.
What Mr. Rege has urged is that the Registrar ought to have exercised his discretion against registering the application of the applicant.
The discretion has been vested in the Registrar under s. 18(4), for protection of the interests of the general public.
The Deputy Registrar has, however, exercised the discretion in favour of registration.
Mr. Justice Shah held against exercising that discretion in favour of registering the application.
This discretion is a judicial discretion, and the Deputy Registrar's exercise thereof should be over-ruled only if he has applied wrong principles of law or has not appreciated the facts before him.
It is clear that the Deputy Registrar has taken into account two factors for deciding that he could not exercise his discretion against the applicant.
Taking the second factor first, he felt that the exercise of his discretion adversely to the applicant would, in effect, amount to giving a monopoly to the opponents in the word ?Caltex?
irrespective of any goods whatsoever.
Turning now to the first reason, the Deputy Registrar felt that there was no legal or judicial basis for exercising the discretion adversely to the applicant because of the findings of fact which he has arrived at.
A Court is, therefore, entitled to interfere with such an exercise of discretion.
This is not a case of merely a wrong appreciation of the facts before him by the Deputy Registrar.
In these circumstances, therefore, we are of the opinion that the learned Judge was justified in interfering with the exercise of his discretion by the Deputy Registrar.
The appeal, therefore, fails and is dismissed with costs.