The case was heard by a nine-judge bench of the Supreme Court of India.
The case dealt with the constitutionality of reservations in public employment and education for socially and educationally backward classes of citizens in India.
The petitioners challenged the validity of certain government orders that provided for reservation of seats in universities and government jobs for backward classes.
The petitioners argued that such reservations violated the principles of equality and non-discrimination enshrined in the Indian Constitution.
Whether the principle of ‘equality of status and of opportunity’ to be equally provided to all the citizens of India from cradle to grave is satisfactorily consummated?
Whether the clarion of ‘equality of opportunity in matters of public employment’ enshrined in Article 16(4) of the Constitution of India has been called into action?
Whether 10% reservation in favour of ‘other economically backward sections’ is permissible under Article 16?
Whether the use of the expression, ‘Nothing in this article shall prevent the State’ in Article 16(4) empowers the State to make reservation under Article 16(4) on race, religion or caste?
Whether the 50% rule enunciated in Balaji is a binding rule or only a rule of caution or rule of prudence?
The petitioners argued that reservations based on caste violated the principles of equality and non-discrimination enshrined in the Indian Constitution.
They also argued that the reservations were not based on any scientific or objective criteria and were therefore arbitrary and unconstitutional.
The respondents argued that the reservations were necessary to address historical discrimination against certain communities and to promote social justice and equality.
The principle of ‘equality of status and of opportunity’ to be equally provided to all the citizens of India from cradle to grave is not satisfactorily consummated.
The clarion of ‘equality of opportunity in matters of public employment’ enshrined in Article 16(4) of the Constitution of India has not been called into action.
The reservation of 10% of the posts in favour of ‘other economically backward sections of the people who are not covered by any of the existing schemes of the reservation’ made in the impugned Office Memorandum dated September 25, 1991 is constitutionally invalid and is accordingly struck down.
The use of the expression, ‘Nothing in this article shall prevent the State’ in Article 16(4) cannot be read as empowering the State to make reservation under Article 16(4) on race, religion or caste.
The 50% rule enunciated in Balaji is a rule of prudence and not a binding rule.
The court held that while reservations were necessary to address historical discrimination against certain communities, they should not be based solely on caste.
The court also held that reservations should be confined to initial appointments and should not be extended to promotions.
The court further held that the percentage of reservation should not exceed 50%.
The court also held that the use of the expression, ‘Nothing in this article shall prevent the State’ in Article 16(4) did not empower the State to make reservation under Article 16(4) on race, religion or caste.
The court also held that the 50% rule enunciated in Balaji was a rule of prudence and not a binding rule.
The reservation of 10% of the posts in favour of ‘other economically backward sections of the people who are not covered by any of the existing schemes of the reservation’ made in the impugned Office Memorandum dated September 25, 1991 was struck down as constitutionally invalid.
Clause (i) of the Office Memorandum dated September 25, 1991 was held to be valid subject to a distinction between backward and more backward classes on the basis of degrees of social backwardness and a rational and equitable distribution of the benefits of the reservations amongst them.
Clause (ii) of the Office Memorandum dated September 25, 1991 was held to be invalid and inoperative.
The writ petitions and transferred cases were disposed of in the light of the principles, directions, clarifications and orders contained in this Judgment.