The plaintiff, ITC Limited (aITCa), one of India's largest private sector companies with an annual turnover of Rs. 23,144 crores, claimed that the defendants, Philip Morris Products SA and others (aPhilip Morrisa), introduced their cigarettes in India under the name aMarlboroa and used a mark or logo that is identical or similar to ITC's NAMASTE aWELCOMGROUPa mark/logo.
ITC argued that the W-NAMASTE logo is a permanent and essential feature of all its products and services.
ITC produced pictures and photographs of the defendantsa impugned flaming logo.
Philip Morris claimed that ITC is estopped from alleging trademark infringement by reason of Section 17 of the Act and that ITC has not come to the Court with clean hands, as it had knowledge that Philip Morris had earlier used a design identical to the impugned design in India during the festive season in 2008 and also in 2007.
Whether the plaintiff is entitled to a temporary injunction?
Whether the impugned mark is similar or identical to the plaintiffas registered trademark?
Whether the plaintiff has a reputation in its registered trademark?
Whether the defendantas use of the impugned mark is without due cause and takes unfair advantage of the plaintiff's mark?
The court held that prima facie the two trademarks are neither identical nor similar to each other, and the plaintiff is not entitled to a temporary injunction.
The court dismissed the application under Order 39 Rules 1 and 2 (LA.
No. 12940/2009) and directed the parties to file their documents in the suit within six weeks.
The court noted that in any trademark infringement action, the question of similarity of the rival marks is to be addressed first.
The court found that the plaintiffas mark is not a astand alonea mark and is used with the words WELCOMGROUP or the name of the resort or service.
The court also found that the impugned mark is used only for a special festive pack, ie Diwali.
Therefore, the court concluded that prima facie the two trademarks are neither identical nor similar to each other.
The court also noted that in the case of dilution, there is no presumption of infringement of the mark.
The court held that the plaintiff is not entitled to a temporary injunction as sought.