Dabur India Ltd (the plaintiff) makes Dabur Lal Dant Manjan Powder, a popular Ayurvedic tooth powder, and has 80% market share in the Ayurvedic tooth powder trade.
Colgate Palmolive India Ltd (the defendant) manufactures Colgate tooth powder, which is a rival product to Dabur Lal Dant Manjan Powder.
The defendant aired an advertisement on visual media that allegedly denigrated the generic product Lal Dant Manjan, which directly affected the plaintiff's business.
The plaintiff filed a suit against the defendant for violating its Intellectual Property Rights and infringing its registered trademark.
The plaintiff also sought an interim injunction to restrain the defendant from airing the advertisement.
Whether the defendant's advertisement violated the Intellectual Property Rights of the plaintiff?
Whether the plaintiff was entitled to an interim injunction to restrain the defendant from airing the advertisement?
The plaintiff argued that the defendant's advertisement violated section 29(8)(a)& (c) of the Trade Marks Act, 1999, which prohibits the infringement of a registered trade mark by an advertisement contrary to honest practices in industrial or commercial matters and against the reputation of the registered trade mark.
The plaintiff also argued that the defendant's use of its product for a comparison with the rival product of the plaintiff amounted to a violation of its Intellectual Property Rights.
The defendant argued that the advertisement did not identify or refer to the plaintiff's product, and the mark of the plaintiff was not registered.
The defendant also argued that it was ready to back up its claim made in the advertisement by the virtue of studies commissioned by it, and the plaintiff could only claim damages as there was neither prima facie case nor balance of convenience in its favour nor irreparable injury likely to be caused to the plaintiff.
The court held that the defendant's advertisement violated the Intellectual Property Rights of the plaintiff and amounted to infringement of a registered trade mark.
The court also held that generic disparagement of a rival product without specifically identifying or pin pointing the rival product is equally objectionable.
The court further held that the defendant's right to inform the purchasing public of the ill effects of the Lal Dant Manjan powder based on its commissioned study cannot tilt the balance of convenience in the favour of the defendant particularly when the plaintiff also seeks to rely upon studies commissioned by it to back up the merits of its product.
Consequently, the court granted an interim injunction and restrained the defendant from telecasting the TV commercial aColgate Tooth Powdera as depicted in Annexure aAa to the plaint.