The plaintiff has filed a suit for permanent injunction restraining passing of, damages and delivery up etc.
The plaintiff is the proprietor of the trademark ?SECEF?, a medicinal formulation containing cefisime which is sold by the plaintiff in capsule and suspension form.
The trade mark SECEF, as per the plaintiff, was adopted in the year 1998 and is a coined word and is a distinctive trade mark.
As per the plaintiff, the trade mark SECEF has been continuously and extensively used in India since May 2002 and has registered total sale of 207 crores till date.
The search report also revealed that defendant No1 had applied for registration of the trade mark under No. 1452902 in class 5.
Whether the plaintiff has the right to invoke the jurisdiction of the court?
Whether there is a probability of confusion and deception between the plaintiff's and defendant's trade marks?
Whether the defendant has the territorial jurisdiction to try and entertain the present suit?
Whether the plaintiff is entitled to an injunction in the matter?
Whether the plaintiff has approached this court with clean hands?
The suffix "CEF" has been derived by the parties from the ingredient containing Cefixime, therefore, the mark of the plaintiff itself is a distinctive trade mark as claimed by the plaintiff and there is no visual similarity under the said circumstances.
This proposition has already been discussed in various decisions passed by Apex Court for the last more than four decades in which have clearly laid down that the rival marks of the parties have to be compared as a whole.
Actual deception is not required in an action of passing off.
Therefore there is no chance of confusion and deception.
In the field of medicinal remedies the courts may not speculate as to whether there is a probability of confusion between similar names.
"Prevention of confusion and mistakes in medicines is too vital to be trifled with".
The contention of the defendant has no force as the defendants have failed to produce any evidence of the actual user of the said marks referred by the defendants.
Hence, in the absence of valid and cogent evidence, the submission of the defendant cannot be accepted.
The next submission of the learned counsel for the defendant is that this court does not have the territorial jurisdiction to try and entertain the present suit.
Learned counsel for the plaintiff has argued that the plaintiff has invoked the jurisdiction of this court on the basis of fact that the defendant?s product is available in New Delhi and that the plaintiff?s sales are also effected within the territory of this court.
Learned counsel for the plaintiff has further argued that the mere averment in the plaint is sufficient to invoke the jurisdiction.
The next contention of the learned counsel for the defendant is that the defendant?s application is prior in time, therefore, the plaintiff is not entitled for injunction in the matter.
It is a matter of fact that the plaintiff is the earlier user of the trade mark in question.
The mere filing of the application prior in time of the plaintiff?s application does not confer any right in favour of the defendant when the plaintiff is the actual prior user of the mark in question.
The said contention is also totally merit-less because it is the defendant who himself has given the reply to the notice issued by the plaintiff to withdraw the application for registration of the trade mark and also issued a letter in favour of the Registrar of the Trade Marks.
Therefore, the said contention has also no force in the eyes of law.
The last contention of the defendant is that the plaintiff has not approached this court with clean hands as the plaintiff has knowingly made false and misleading statements.
After considering the overall circumstances of the matter, I am of the view that prima facie it appeared that the defendants have infringed the legal rights of the plaintiff and therefore, they have no justification to use the impugned trade mark.
I am of the considered view that an ex parte ad interim injunction granted by this court on 6 th May, 2008 is to be confirmed and ordered accordingly.
The application stands disposed of.
Based on the analysis, the court has granted the plaintiff's request for an injunction and has confirmed the ex parte ad interim injunction granted on May 6, 2008.