The plaintiff's tagline "VITALIZES BODY AND MIND."
has been registered as a trademark in 73 different countries around the world.
The defendants launched their energy drink "STING" in India in the year 2017 and adopted the tagline "STIMULATES MIND.
ENERGIZES BODY.
", which is deceptively similar to the plaintiff's registered tagline.
The defendants have adopted the plaintiff's tagline to ride upon the goodwill and popularity of the plaintiff's tagline, which amounts to infringement as well as passing off.
Whether the defendants' use of the plaintiff's tagline amounts to infringement and passing off?
Whether the plaintiff's tagline has acquired distinctiveness and secondary meaning?
The purpose of an action of passing off is to prevent confusion and deception amongst consumers and the public at large.
The defendants have used the impugned mark in a descriptive manner, and therefore, no action of passing off can be made out.
The defendants have filed a rectification petition under Section 124 of the Trade Marks Act on the ground that the registration is in contravention of Section 9 of the Act.
However, the tagline is being used by the defendants only in a descriptive manner, and therefore, no case of injunction is made out under Section 29 of the Trade Marks Act.
The law with regard to use of a descriptive word/mark and Section 30(2)(a) of the Trade Marks Act has been laid down in the case of Marico (supra).
The plaintiff was additionally using the registered trademarks "LOSORB" and "LO-SORB", whereas the defendant was using the expression "LOW ABSORB TECHNOLOGY".
The plaintiff objected to the use of the said expression on the ground that it had registrations in favour of the terms "LOSORB" and "LO-SORB".
After analysing the various provisions of the Trade Marks Act, a division Bench of this Court came to the conclusion that the expression "LOW ABSORB TECHNOLOGY" has been used by the defendant in a descriptive manner and therefore, in terms of Section 30(2)(a) of the Trade Marks Act, the plaintiff will not be entitled for injunction.
The use of the impugned tagline by the defendants is also in a descriptive/laudatory manner and not as a trademark.
Resultantly, no infringement has been committed by the defendants in terms of Section 29 of the Trade Marks Act.
Therefore, at this prima facie stage, it cannot be said that the tagline of the plaintiff "VITALIZES BODY AND MIND."
has acquired distinctiveness and secondary meaning.
Based on the above analysis, it is concluded that the plaintiff is not entitled to an injunction against the defendants, and no case of passing off is made out.
The plaintiff's tagline is descriptive in nature and has not acquired distinctiveness and secondary meaning.
Therefore, the defendants' use of the plaintiff's tagline does not amount to infringement or passing off.