Plaintiff issued ?cease and desist?
notice to 1st Defendant for proposing to operate bus services under the trade mark ?Luxuria?
1st Defendant argued that their registered trade mark pertains to services and there is no prima facie case nor balance of convenience in favor of the Plaintiff to grant injunction
1st Defendant themselves have applied for registration of the trade mark ?Luxuria?
under Classes 35 and 39, despite the fact that there is a prohibition under Section 9(1)(b) of the Act
Plaintiff's registered trade mark is ?Luxura?
and the mark adopted by the 1st Defendant is the word ?Luxuria?
along with the device of a reclining chair, which is similar to the registered trade mark of the Plaintiff
Plaintiff's launch of the bus Intercity ?Luxura?
was announced in ?The Hindu?
in January 2006 and the trade mark was registered
Plaintiff sought injunction against 1st Defendant for using the trade mark ?Luxuria?
1st Defendant argued that the words ?Luxura?
and ?Luxuria?
are only derivatives of the generic word ?Luxury?
and that no one can claim any exclusive right to the use of the same
1.
Whether the mark ?Luxuria?
is identical or similar to the registered trade mark ?Luxura?
2.
Whether 1st Defendant's use of the mark ?Luxuria?
is without due cause and takes unfair advantage of or is detrimental to the distinctive character or reputation of the registered trade mark
Decision
Plaintiff's appeal is allowed and 1st Defendant's appeal is dismissed.
The injunction granted by the learned Single Judge is upheld.
Reasoning
1st Defendant cannot take advantage of the fact that their registered trade mark pertains to services while Plaintiff's pertains to goods.
1st Defendant themselves have applied for registration of the trade mark ?Luxuria?
despite the prohibition under Section 9(1)(b) of the Act.
The mark adopted by the 1st Defendant is similar to the registered trade mark of the Plaintiff.
The scope of infringement under Section 29(2) of the Trade Marks Act is wide and consists of three parts, including the likelihood of confusion on the part of the public.
The use of identical trademark ?Luxuria?
for bus services by the 1st Defendant is likely to cause confusion and therefore, Defendants committed infringement within the meaning of Section 29(2) of the Act.
The words ?Luxura?
and ?Luxuria?
are only variants of the descriptive term ?Luxury?
and as a consequence, the protection available is not so strong.
1st Defendant has not made out any substantial ground for interference with the well considered order of the learned Single Judge and both the Appeals are liable to be dismissed.