The plaintiff claims to have a good reputation in the field of television and has introduced a commercial sponsored program on Doordarshan.
The plaintiff is also the founder member and convener of the Indian Broadcasters Association.
The plaintiff applied for registration after developing the concept of a reality TV show revolving around marriages and matchmaking under the Copyright Act.
The plaintiff described the concept of Swayamvar as a unique real-life entertainment television series that would be studio-based with video snapshots used for introduction.
The defendant no. 2 was due to launch a big budget reality show which would provide a platform for matchmaking.
The plaintiff wrote a letter to the defendant to clarify what this reality show was and then sent a legal notice to the defendant.
The plaintiff contends that the defendant misappropriated the concept of the plaintiff's program of Swayamvar and announced the making of the program on similar lines.
The plaintiff argues that this amounts to infringement of the plaintiff's copyright.
1.
Whether the defendant infringed the plaintiff's copyright by misappropriating the concept of the plaintiff's program of Swayamvar and announcing the making of the program on similar lines?
3.
Whether the defendant may be permitted to launch its proposed TV program Shubh Vivah which is allegedly based on the concept of Swayamvar conceived by the plaintiff?
Violation of copyright amounts to an act of piracy and must be proved by clear and cogent evidence.
The possessor of the confidential information still has a long start over any member of the public.
The defendant must be placed under special disability in the field of competition to ensure that he does not get an unfair start.
The plaintiff has prima facie proved that the defendants were aware of the concept of Swayamvar and if injunction is not granted, the defendants will launch their TV serial Shubh Vivah, which will also televise match making.
If that is permitted, it will give premium to the defendant and rob the plaintiff of his work.
The plaintiff cannot get an injunction in perpetuity in the concept.
The plaintiff can also not get an injunction till the decision of the suit because if the plaintiffs are entitled to transmit their program Swayamvar on television after televising the same, the concept will be in the public domain.
If the plaintiffs are not in a position to transmit their program entitled Swayamvar on television within a period of four months, defendants shall be at liberty to transmit their program Shubh Vivah after the expiry of four months.
The plaintiff has prima facie proved that the defendants were aware of the concept of Swayamvar and may infringe the plaintiff's copyright.
The defendants cannot be permitted to launch their proposed TV program Shubh Vivah if the same is based on the concept of Swayamvar conceived by the plaintiff.
If the plaintiffs are not in a position to transmit their program entitled Swayamvar on television within a period of four months, defendants shall be at liberty to transmit their program Shubh Vivah after the expiry of four months.