Plaintiff filed an application under Order 39 Rule 1 & 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure (CPC) seeking ad interim injunction.
Ex parte ad interim injunction was granted to the plaintiff on 25th January, 2006.
On service of this injunction order upon the defendant, the defendant immediately filed IA No. 1106/2006 under Order 39 Rule 4, CPC for vacation of the injunction order dated 25th January, 2006.
Both the applications were heard together and are being disposed of by this common order.
Whether the advertisement of the defendant of its product under the trade name ?Mortein?
which is an insecticide is disparaging and denigrates the product of the plaintiff and on this ground whether the plaintiff can restraint the defendant from exhibiting such an advertisement on electronic media.
The defendant's product Mortein is meant for destroying both cockroaches and mosquitoes.
The plaintiff alleges that the defendant is trying to exhibit the products of the plaintiff in a poor light by showing the two cans in black and red colour.
The defendant's case is that it has the right to project its product as better than products available in the market.
The defendant has only projected the superiority of its product by highlighting that its solution can kill both mosquitoes and cockroaches and the consumer is not required to buy two separate items for dispatching two different insects.
Comparative advertising is allowed as long as the product of the adversary/competitor is not denigrated.
A manufacturer is not entitled to say that his competitor's goods are bad so as to puff and promote his goods.
If an action lies for defamation an injunction may be granted.
The defendant's advertisement is not disparaging as it only compares two products and there is neither any negative reference to the plaintiff's products nor it is defamatory or libellous.
The legal right in favour of the plaintiff is not established as the impugned advertisement of the defendant is not disparaging.
The plaintiff is guilty of concealment of material facts as well.
The suit and IA No. 821/2006 filed by the plaintiff are dismissed and IA No. 1106/2006 filed by the defendant is allowed with costs.
IA No. 821/2006 dismissed.
IA No. 1106/2006 allowed.