Plaintiff owns the trademark ?Liv52?
registered under registration No. 180564 in class 5 as of 10 July, 1957 in respect of medicinal preparation for treatment of disorder of liver.
The said trade mark has been used since the year 1955.
After recording the evidence of the parties, the learned Single Judge dismissed the suit of the plaintiff by the impugned judgment.
Whether the defendant?s use of the mark LIV-T is an infringement of the plaintiff?s registered trademark Liv52?
The defendant is restrained from using the mark LIV as part of its trade mark LIV-T while dealing with the medicinal preparations.
Since the present litigation is pending for the last more than 15 years and as of today the infringing mark is being used by the defendant for the last 20 years, the defendant is granted six months time to liquidate its pending stock.
The entire scheme of the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 is that a mark shall be deemed to be deceptively similar to another mark if it so nearly resembles that other mark as to be likely to deceive or cause confusion.
By virtue of registration under Section 28 of the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958, if valid, the registered proprietor of the trade mark gets the exclusive right to use the trade mark in relation to the goods in which the said trade mark is registered and to obtain relief in respect of infringements of the trade mark in the manner provided.
The registration of the Liv52 was granted in Part-A.
Consequently, the registrations of mark Liv52 granted under the Part A of the Old Act shall be conclusive as to validity.
It is not necessary for the plaintiff to adduce evidence of actual deception in order to prove the case of infringement.
The visual impact of the two marks Liv52 and LIV-T are different as there is essentially no difference between an alphabet and a numeral.
The plaintiff was able to adduce the evidence that it was a fit case of likelihood of confusion and deception and the two marks are deceptively similar.
The Delhi High Court held that ?It is not in dispute that both the said medicines are meant for treatment of ulcer.
Further, that the trade marks ALSAREX and ULCEREX are phonetically similar.?
Once we arrive at the finding that the Liv52 mark is conclusive in registration without any challenge as per section 32, then the conclusion would be that the use of the expression LIV in isolation is an infringement of the prominent feature of the plaintiff's registered trade mark.
As the defendant is using the mark LIV in isolation, therefore, the defendant is not entitled to use the same.
The defendant is restrained from using the mark LIV as part of its trade mark LIV-T while dealing with the medicinal preparations.
Since the present litigation is pending for the last more than 15 years and as of today the infringing mark is being used by the defendant for the last 20 years, the defendant is granted six months time to liquidate its pending stock.a