The plaintiff has filed an application seeking an interim injunction to restrain the defendants from using the mark/expression "ALL-AROUND PROTECTION"/"ALLROUNDER" in any manner, either as a trade mark, trading style or in any other manner, especially in relation to toothpaste.
The plaintiff has also filed a plaint seeking a relief of permanent injunction and other connected reliefs in relation to its registered trademark "ALLROUND" or the mark/expression "ALLROUND PROTECTION".
The plaintiff applied for registration of the trademark "ALLROUND" on 2nd September 2005 and the registration was granted on 26th August 2008.
The plaintiff alleges that the mark is well known and extensively associated with the plaintiff and its activities.
The plaintiff has used the mark "Anchor ALL ROUND PROTECTION" extensively with huge publicity in international print and electronic media.
The defendants are a subsidiary of The Procter & Gamble Company.
The defendants have moved an application for registration of their mark "ALLROUNDER".
They have urged that the term "ALLROUNDER" is a product neutral expression.
Whether the plaintiff is entitled to an interim injunction to restrain the defendants from using the mark/expression "ALL-AROUND PROTECTION"/"ALLROUNDER" in any manner, either as a trade mark, trading style or in any other manner, especially in relation to toothpaste?
Whether the plaintiff is entitled to a relief of permanent injunction and other connected reliefs in relation to its registered trademark "ALLROUND" or the mark/expression "ALLROUND PROTECTION"?
Whether the mark "ALLROUND" has fallen in disuse?
Whether the defendants are improperly using the plaintiff's mark?
The defendants have urged that the present Suit is liable to be dismissed as it is structured on an inherently invalid trademark, being a completely descriptive expression incapable of having characteristics of a trademark.
They have also claimed that Oral-B(C) was the first toothbrush to go to the moon as it was on board Apollo 11 mission for the first moon landing.
Based on the above, it is urged that the present application is liable to be dismissed.
The defendants have further urged that use of descriptive words in whatsoever manner does not amount to infringement.
The plaintiff has refuted the submissions of the defendants.
The mark "ALL-AROUND PROTECTION" has been registered by the defendant in the United States.
It is alleged that even a prominent part of the mark deserves protection.
It is further urged that in order to seek protection for a mark it is not necessary that the mark has to be the main mark.
The plaintiff has also argued that merely because plaintiff has used the mark "ALLROUND PROTECTION" the mark "ALLROUND" cannot be said to have fallen in disuse.
The Court held that it is not permissible for the defendant to approbate and reprobate.
The principle serves well as it does not allow a litigant to blow hot and cold at successive stages of the same litigation, or another litigation.
The Court also held that in an infringement action, an injunction would be issued if it is proved that the defendant is improperly using the plaintiff's mark.
When the present suit was filed, the defendants had just started marketing of their toothpaste with the impugned trademarks.
In view of the above, the defendants are restrained by an interim injunction from using the impugned trademark "ALL-AROUND PROTECTION"/"ALLROUNDER" or any other mark deceptively similar to the plaintiff's trademark "ALLROUND", till disposal of the accompanying suit.
The Court allowed the plaintiff's application for an interim injunction and restrained the defendants from using the impugned trademark "ALL-AROUND PROTECTION"/"ALLROUNDER" or any other mark deceptively similar to the plaintiff's trademark "ALLROUND", till disposal of the accompanying suit.