This appeal arises from an application made under the Trade Marks Act, 1940 for registration of a trade mark.
The respondent, a manufacturer of biscuits, made the application, which was opposed by the appellant.
The Deputy Registrar found that the appellant had acquired a reputation for their mark 'Glucovita' in respect of glucose powder mixed with vitamins but held that the respondent's mark was not likely to cause deception or confusion.
Desai, J. disagreed and set aside the order of the Deputy Registrar.
The appellate Judges of the High Court found that there was no evidence that the appellant's trade mark had acquired a reputation among the public and that there was no reasonable apprehension of confusion or deception.
The appellant appealed to this Court, arguing that Section 8(a) prevents the registration of the respondent's mark.
Whether Section 8(a) prevents the registration of the respondent's mark
The Court found that there was ample evidence to show that the appellant's mark had acquired a reputation among the general buying public and that it would be wrong to say that there was no reasonable apprehension of confusion or deception.
The Court also found that the learned appellate Judges were in error in deciding in favour of the respondent based on the series marks with a prefix or suffix 'Gluco' or 'Vita'.
The Court held that the marks conveyed the ideas of glucose and life giving properties of vitamins and that a trade connection between glucose and biscuits was established.
The Court set aside the order of the appellate Judges of the High Court and restored that of Desai, J. The appeal was allowed.
The Court found that the Deputy Registrar was wrong in holding that the respondent's mark was not likely to cause deception or confusion.
The Court held that the marks were sufficiently similar so as to be reasonably likely to cause deception and confusion.
The Court also found that the learned appellate Judges were in error in deciding in favour of the respondent based on the series marks with a prefix or suffix 'Gluco' or 'Vita'.
The Court held that the marks conveyed the ideas of glucose and life giving properties of vitamins and that a trade connection between glucose and biscuits was established.