In the State of Mysore, there are several engineering and medical colleges, most of which are government colleges and a few of which are government-aided colleges.
The Government of Mysore issued an order on July 26, 1963, reserving 30% of the seats in professional and technical colleges for Backward Classes and 18% for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.
On July 6, 1963, the Government sent a letter to the Director of Technical Education in Mysore, Bangalore, informing him that 25% of the maximum marks for the examination in the optional subjects taken into account for making the selection of candidates for admission to engineering colleges shall be fixed as interview marks.
The selection committee converted the total of the marks in the optional subjects to a maximum of 300 marks and fixed the maximum marks for the interview at 75.
On the basis of the marks obtained by the candidates in the examination and those obtained in the interview, selections were made for admission to engineering and medical colleges.
The main issue in this case is the validity of the orders made by the Government of Mysore in respect of admissions to engineering and medical colleges in the State of Mysore.
The appellants contend that the Government did not issue any order to the selection committee in charge of admissions to medical colleges prescribing the marks for interview or fixing the criteria for allotting the said marks.
They also argue that the orders made by the Government in respect of admissions were illegal because the Government has no power to appoint a selection committee for admitting students to colleges on the basis of higher or different qualifications than those prescribed by the university.
They further argue that the system of selection by interviews and vivo voce examination is illegal inasmuch as it enables the interviewers to act arbitrarily and to manipulate the results and, therefore, it contravenes Article 14 of the Constitution
The Court held that the relevant instructions were issued in respect of admission to medical colleges and that the provisions of Article 166 of the Constitution are only directory and not mandatory in character.
The Court also held that the State Government is within its rights to prescribe qualifications for admission to colleges so long as its action does not contravene any other law.
The Court further held that the order of the Government does not in any way contravene Article 14 of the Constitution However, the Court also recognized the larger question that selection by interview is inherently repugnant to the doctrine of equality embodied in Article 14 of the Constitution and that the scheme of selection, however perfect it may be on paper, may be abused in practice.
The Court also held that caste cannot be equated to a class, though the caste of an individual or a group of individuals may be considered along with other relevant factors in putting him in a particular class.
Finally, the Court held that a direction be issued to the selection committee to make the selection of candidates solely on the basis of the result of PUC Examination.
The Court dismissed the appeals and held that a direction be issued to the selection committee to make the selection of candidates solely on the basis of the result of PUC Examination.