The plaintiff and the defendant are both manufacturers and marketers of mosquito repellents.
The plaintiff claims to have been the first company in India to start its business in liquid vapourisers, which was seen as a revolution in the mosquito repellent product industry.
The plaintiff also claims to be the market leader in liquid vapourisers business with a 63% share for its apparatus.
The plaintiff's product advertisement uses an animated brand messenger instead of a celebrity to endorse the product.
The defendant released a television commercial which, according to the plaintiff, completely disparages, denigrates and shows the plaintiff's product in bad light.
The commercial is intended to convey to the viewers the message that the plaintiff's product is outdated and less efficient than the product manufactured by defendant No. 3.
The plaintiff's grievance is that the offending commercial uses ALL OUT Pluggy and ALL OUT Refill of the plaintiff and that the commercial depicts the same as 15 years old, hence outdated in comparison to defendant No. 3's GOOD KNIGHT TURBO REFILL.
The plaintiff claims that this part of the commercial is a complete disparagement of the plaintiff's product.
The use of the three dimensional reproduction of what the plaintiff claims is a drawing of its pluggy is a violation of its rights under the Copyright Act, 1957.
The matter came to the Court when the defendants filed their reply to the injunction application and sought vacation of the interim order under Order XXXIX Rule 4 CPC.
In the meantime, the defendant appears to have started telecasting a new commercial with some modifications.
Action in contempt was therefore, prayed for against the defendants for what was according to the petitioner a blatant violation of the order of injunction issued by this Court.
Whether the defendant's advertisement campaign disparages the plaintiff's product and violates the Copyright Act, 1957.
The Court found that the original advertisement was disparaging and restrained its telecast.
The plaintiff cannot, therefore, complain of any disparagement in the modified commercial which simply puffs up the plaintiff's product - something that the defendant in law is entitled to do.
The re-run of the same commercial, with a slightly modified design of the device or colour scheme, does not materially alter either the message or the basis on which the same is being sent across.
The telecast of the modified commercial is liable to be restrained not only because the commercial disparages the product manufactured and marketed by the plaintiff but also because the claim made by the defendant about any technological advantage justifying the disparagement are not substantiated.
The Court referred to the leading decision of the House of Lords in White v. Melin, 1895 AC 154, which first examined the situations in which an action would lie against a tradesman for an advertisement campaign considered objectionable by his rivals.
The Court found that comparative advertisement is permissible, so long as such comparison does not disparage or denigrate the trademark or the products of a competitor.
The claim of a technological advantage over the product of the plaintiff has not been established.
The plaintiff's version that 16% Prallethrin chemical composition used in the liquid was registered in the year 2000 has not been disputed.
Even the 'blue' design of the pluggy used in the modified commercial by the defendants was registered in 1996, according to the defendants.
The telecast of the modified commercial is liable to be restrained.
The case was posted for admission and/or denial of the documents before the Joint Registrar on 1 September 2005.a