The respondents filed a suit for an injunction based on an action for passing off in respect of the mark ?ocuflox?
used on a medicinal preparation manufactured and marketed by the respondents.
The respondents claimed that they were the prior users of the mark ocuflox in respect of an eye-care product containing Ofloxacin and other compounds.
The appellants were selling ?ocuflox?, a medicinal preparation containing ciprofloxacin hcl to be used for the treatment of the eye and the ear.
Whether the respondents were entitled to an injunction?
Whether the passing-off action was maintainable against the registered owner of the trade mark?
Whether the public interest is imperilled if an identical mark in respect of a similar drug is allowed to be sold in India?
Whether the respondents were the first to use the mark?
It has been held that the respondents were first in the market and, therefore, they were entitled to an injunction.
The passing-off action was maintainable in law even against the registered owner of the trade mark.
The court must ensure that public interest is in no way imperilled.
Thus, if a mark in respect of a drug is associated with the respondents worldwide it would lead to an anomalous situation if an identical mark in respect of a similar drug is allowed to be sold in India.
However, if on evidence it is shown that the respondents had not adopted the mark prior to its use in India by the appellants then, undoubtedly, the trial court would vacate the injunction.
The refusal of an injunction could cause irreparable injury to the reputation of the respondent.
The court must ensure that public interest is in no way imperilled.
Thus, if a mark in respect of a drug is associated with the respondents worldwide it would lead to an anomalous situation if an identical mark in respect of a similar drug is allowed to be sold in India.
With these directions, the appeal stands disposed of.
The suit stands expedited.
The trial court is requested to dispose of the suit as early as possible and in any case within a period of 6 months from today.a