The plaintiff filed a suit for a perpetual injunction to restrain the defendants from infringing their copyright in the literary work and cinematograph film of the television game show "Titan Antakshari".
The plaintiff also sought an order to restrain the defendants from making and broadcasting the television game show "Antakshari - The Great Challenge" and/or using the content and/or presentation and/or the word "Antakshari" in relation to any television game show so as to pass off such show as being a television game show associated with and/or authorized by and/or having any connection with the plaintiff's game show "Titan Antakshari".
The plaintiff also sought damages and an order for delivery up and destruction of the infringing material.
The plaintiff alleged that defendant No. 1 was under a contract of service with the plaintiff since inception.
The plaintiff alleged that the defendants have, by copying the content and presentation of the plaintiff's television game show, passed off their television show "Antakshari - The Great Challenge" as that of the plaintiff's game show.
The plaintiff contended that the defendants' commercial is a copy of the plaintiffs' TV serial and therefore constitutes reproduction.
The defendants claimed to be the owners of a cinematograph film entitled "His First Car".
Whether the breach of a copyright in a film can be committed only by duplicating the film itself?
Whether a passing off action can be maintained in respect of television game shows?
Whether there is novelty in any of the rounds of the third defendant's show?
Decision
The court held that the breach of copyright in a film can be committed by creating another film which merely resembles the original film.
The court also held that passing off actions can be maintained in respect of television game shows depending upon the facts of each case.
The court further held that there is novelty in the rounds of the plaintiff's show and that the differences in the format and presentation in the third defendant's show are not materially or substantially different such that the misrepresentation by the third defendant would not have the desired effect.
The court granted the reliefs sought by the plaintiff and ordered the defendants to cease and desist from infringing the plaintiff's copyright and passing off their show as that of the plaintiff's.
The court also ordered the defendants to pay damages and deliver up and destroy the infringing material.
The operation of this order was stayed until a specified date to enable the defendants to challenge the same.