The words anor any of the provisions thereofa (i.e of the Acts and regulations specified in the Ninth Schedule) ashall be deemed to be void or ever to have become voida were on account of important historic circumstances.
Article 31-A had sufficient guidelines and did not exclude judicial review of the courts (which enforced fundamental rights).
Part III itself is undoubtedly a basic feature of the Constitution.
Bill 88 of 1978, titled the Constitution (Forty-fifth Amendment) Bill, 1978 was introduced in the Lok Sabha on 15-5-1978.
Clause 45 (amendment of Article 368) p=270 to 281 of Debates aThat clause 45 stands part of the Bill.a The Bill as amended was thus passed by the Lok Sabha on 7-12-1978.
Article 31-B has now become totally otiose and cannot be invoked by Parliament to make void laws valid (void because they infringe all or any of the rights mentioned in Part III).
It is not governed by Article 31-A
Whether a constitutional amendment which incorporates a legislation in the Ninth Schedule has to be tested on the ground whether such legislation or its provisions violate the basic structure of the Constitution.
The power to amend the Ninth Schedule flows from the power to amend the Constitution from Article 368.
Therefore, Section 14 of the General Clauses Act would clearly apply.
It was generally argued that Article 14 is one of the basic features of the Constitution and hence any constitutional amendment violative of Article 14 is equally violative of the basic structure.
Twelve out of the thirteen Judges proceeded on the basis that it was too late in the day to challenge the validity of Article 31-B having regard to the various decisions of the Supreme Court upholding Article 31-B
Therefore, in the absence of the amendment being specified in the Ninth Schedule the amendment cannot be protected for infringement of the rights under Part III of the Constitution.
Therefore, a constitutional amendment which incorporates a legislation in the Ninth Schedule has to be tested on the ground whether it violates the basic structure of the Constitution.
Article 31-B is a constitutional mechanism for validating statutes which have been struck down on the ground of violation of Part III of the Constitution.
Article 31-B creates a sphere whereby legislation or regulation provided in the Ninth Schedule would not attract the application of Part III of the Constitution.
Therefore, a constitutional amendment which incorporates a legislation in the Ninth Schedule has to be tested on the ground whether such legislation or its provisions violate the basic structure of the Constitution.
It is therefore submitted that mere curtailment of a fundamental right might not offend the basic structure of the Constitution.
The majority in Bhim Singhji case did not strike down Section 21(1) on the basis of violation of a particular fundamental right like Article 14 of the Constitution.
Fundamental rights are not unamendable and they have been expressly held to be amendable.
Article 31-B is a constitutional device or mechanism for validating statutes which have been struck down on the ground that they infringe Part III of the Constitution.
Article 31-B itself cures the defect which takes aplace with retrospective operation from the dates on which the Acts were put on the statute-booka.
Thus it is settled law that validating legislation can be passed prospectively, or retrospectively to remove the basis of the judgment.
The petitions/appeals be now placed for hearing before a three-Judge Bench for decision in accordance with the principles laid down herein.