Plaintiff filed an application under Order 39 Rule 1 & 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure seeking an ad-interim injunction against the defendants, their Directors, agents, and assigns in respect of telecast of their advertisement for "Good Knight Naturals Mosquito Repellant Cream" on the grounds that it disparages plaintiff's mosquito repellant cream marketed under the brand name "ODOMOS".
Facts: The plaintiff claimed that its product ODOMOS was an extremely popular brand which enjoyed 865% of market share in the year 2007-08 and 844% in the year 2008-09.
The impugned advertisement was aired on the Zee News Channel on 8.10.2009 and insinuated that plaintiff's product caused rashes and allergies.
The defendant claimed that its advertisement only adverted to a statement of fact and did not intend to disparage plaintiff's product.
The defendant manufactured a mosquito repellant cream sold under the brand name "Good Night Naturals" which mitigated chances of getting rashes or allergy.
Whether the impugned advertisement prima facie falls within the tort of "malicious falsehood" and whether the plaintiff is entitled to an ad-interim injunction against the defendants.
The plaintiff argued that the impugned advertisement denigrated its product and sought an injunction against the defendants.
The defendant argued that there was no disparagement of plaintiff's product and that the advertisement only sought to bring to fore the advantages of a mosquito repellant cream comprising of natural additives as against the mosquito repellant cream which does not have such additives.
The court held that not every disparagement of a rival trader's goods is actionable in law and that the impugned advertisement did not prima facie fall within the tort of "malicious falsehood".
The court dismissed the plaintiff's application for an ad-interim injunction against the defendants.
The court reasoned that competition is good and healthy competition enures in the favour of the public, i.e., consumer.
The court further reasoned that truth is a complete defence to a charge of tort of defamation or slander of goods and that advertising is a form of commercial speech protected under the provisions of Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution.
The court held that the defendant was entitled to say that its goods were best in the world and that the plaintiff and the defendant both manufactured a mosquito repellant cream.
The court concluded that the impugned advertisement did not prima facie fall within the tort of "malicious falsehood" and dismissed the plaintiff's application for an ad-interim injunction against the defendants.
The court dismissed the plaintiff's application for an ad-interim injunction against the defendantsa