The plaintiffs seek to restrain the defendants by means of a temporary injunction from using the trade mark and trade name BAKER or any other trade mark or trade name deceptively similar thereto as their corporate name or as a part thereof.
The second plaintiff is a parent company of the first plaintiff and is stated to own the trade mark Baker.
The second defendant is a company incorporated in India under a certificate of incorporation dated February 13,1985.
In 1982, the first defendant had discussions with Bakerline, a Baker Oil Tools Company, Taxas, USA (a division of Baker International Ltd), for floating a joint venture company in India for the manufacture of oil field equipment and products.
It was proposed that Baker Oil Tools will receive 5% royalty on the products manufactured by the joint venture company for use within India.
On September 20, 1983, the first defendant, as the sole proprietor of Miraksha Associates, applied to the Ministry of Industry.
Department of Industrial Development for permission to establish a joint venture with M/s. Bakerline for manufacturing oil field equipment.
The use of foreign brand name will not be permitted for the purpose of internal sales.
However, the first defendant and his associates holding 60% of the shares of second defendant voted against the resolution.
Thus the motion to include provisions of clause 83 in the Articles of Association of the second defendant stood defeated.
The second defendant while acknowledging the receipt of the said notice by its letter dated March 15, 1995 categorically declined to accede to the demand of the plaintiffs on the ground that it was under no legal obligation to change its name.
The plaintiffs are world leaders in the oil field equipment, products and services.
The defendants have been using the said name for more than a decade.
The learned counsel for the defendants disputed the contention of the learned counsel for the plaintiffs that the plaintiffs have acquired transborder reputation.
In this regard, learned counsel referred to clause 21 of the Technical Know-How Agreement.
The agreement also recites the resolve of the first defendant to promote and form a private company by the name Baker Oil Tools (India) Private Ltd
The agreement records the offer of the first plaintiff to become a shareholder of the said company by contributing to its share capital.
Thus, this clause stipulates that in case the holding of the first plaintiff falls below 40% of the paid-up equity capital of the Indian company, the latter shall not be entitled to retain the word Baker as part of its name.
Whether the defendants have the right to use the trade name Baker as part of its corporate name after the termination of the licence created by clause 83 of the collaboration agreement.
The court held that the plaintiffs have made out a prima facie strong case for the grant of injunction.
The continuance of the word Baker as part of the corporate name of the second defendant is likely to cause deception and confusion in the mind of the customers.
The dilution of the trade mark or corporate name of the plaintiffs by the use of the word baker by the defendants after the plaintiffs have ceased to have any association or relationship with the defendants, will adversely affect the business interests of the plaintiffs.
The plaintiffs have established their reputation and goodwill in this country.
Therefore, the plaintiffs have established a strong prima facie case for grant of interim relief.
The court found that the defendants were not entitled to use the word Baker in its corporate name after the first plaintiff had sold its share in the second defendant.
The name Baker is distinctive of the plaintiffs and the second defendant has no right to continue the use of the same after the termination of the licence created by clause 83 of the collaboration agreement.
The court also noted that the plaintiffs have prima facie established their reputation and goodwill in this country.
The continuance of the word Baker as part of the corporate name of the second defendant is likely to cause deception and confusion in the mind of the customers.
The dilution of the trade mark or corporate name of the plaintiffs by the use of the word baker by the defendants after the plaintiffs have ceased to have any association or relationship with the defendants, will adversely affect the business interests of the plaintiffs.
The court granted the plaintiffs' application for interim relief and restrained the defendants from using the trade mark and trade name BAKER or any other trade mark or trade name deceptively similar thereto as their corporate name or as a part thereof.