The plaintiff, Time Warner Entertainment Company, LP, operates the world's oldest and largest cable television channel under the trade mark HBO/Home Box Office, in use since September 1972.
The plaintiff is present in India from the year 1994 when it applied for registration of its trade mark HBO.
The defendants were at one time actively engaged in negotiation for a joint venture to create a Hindi and English Channel with the plaintiff and have full knowledge about the business of the plaintiff and its trade mark and reputation.
The defendants declined to reframe from using the marks CBO and/or Cable Box Office.
The plaintiff instituted the present suit seeking for permanent injunction against the defendants restraining them from conducting their television services under the name, mark or logo CBO/Cable Box Office or under any name or style which is deceptively similar to the name or mark or logo of the plaintiff called HBO/Home Box Office.
Whether the defendants' use of CBO/Cable Box Office is deceptively similar to the plaintiff's trade mark HBO/Home Box Office?
Whether the plaintiff will suffer irreparable loss or damages if the injunction as prayed for is not granted?
The court allowed the application filed by the plaintiff under Order 39 Rules 1 & 2 and confirmed the order of injunction passed by the court till the disposal of the suit.
The application filed by the defendants praying for vacation of the interim order stands rejected.
The court relied on the Supreme Court decision in Wander Limited and Anr. v. Antox India Pvt, 1990 (Suppl) SCC 727, which laid down the various factors to be considered for grant of an interlocutory injunction in a passing off action.
The three factors namely the prima facie case, the balance of convenience and irreparable loss and injury must be present and satisfied before an injunction could be issued.
The court held that the defendants' use of CBO/Cable Box Office is deceptively similar to the plaintiff's trade mark HBO/Home Box Office, and there is every possibility of the plaintiff suffering irreparable loss or damages if the injunction as prayed for is not granted.
The balance of convenience is also in favour of the plaintiff.
Therefore, the court allowed the application filed by the plaintiff under Order 39 Rules 1 & 2 and confirmed the order of injunction passed by the court till the disposal of the suit.
Wander Limited and Anr. v. Antox India Pvt, 1990 (Suppl) SCC 727
The court allowed the application filed by the plaintiff under Order 39 Rules 1 & 2 and confirmed the order of injunction passed by the court till the disposal of the suit.
The application filed by the defendants praying for vacation of the interim order stands rejected.
The suit is listed before the Joint Registrar for admission/denial of documents on 2471997.