Since 1958 the State of Mysore has been endeavouring to make a special provision for the advancement of its socially and educationally backward classes of citizens under Article 15(4) of the Constitution, and every time when an order is passed in that behalf, its validity has been challenged by writ proceedings.
Four previous orders passed in that behalf were challenged by writ proceedings taken against the State under Article 226 in the High Court of Mysore.
The present petitions filed by the respective petitioners under Article 32 dispute the validity of the last order passed by the State of Mysore on 31-7-1962, under Article 15(4).
Out of the twenty-three petitioners, six had applied for admission to the pre-professional class in Medicine in the medical colleges affiliated either to the Mysore University or to the Karnatak University, and seventeen had applied for admission to the First Year of the 5 Year integrated course leading to the Degree of BE in the University of Mysore.
According to the petitioners, but for the reservation made by the impugned order, they would have been entitled to admission in the respective colleges for which they had applied.
That, in brief, is the petitioners' grievance and they urge that the impugned order which has denied them the facility of admission in the respective colleges is void under Articles 15(1) and 29(2) and should not be enforced against them.
The contention that the order is a colourable exercise of the State's power and amounts to a fraud on the Constitution is disputed.
In the result, the writ petitions filed to challenge the validity of the order succeeded and the impugned order was quashed.
It appears that 65% of the seats were reserved for these socially and educationally Backward Classes and Scheduled Castes and Tribes.
The High Court upheld the pleas raised by the petitioners and quashed the impugned orders.
This order was also challenged before the Mysore High Court in SA Partha v. The State of Mysore AIR 1961 Mysore 220.
It held that Lingayats, and Bhunts who formed part of Vokkaligas, should be treated as backward.
The petitioners contend that the classification made by this order is irrational and the reservation of 68% made by it is a fraud on Article 15(4).
On 29-1-1953, the President appointed the Backward Classes Commission by virtue of the power conferred on him under Article 340(1) of the Constitution.
The Committee realised that, in substance, the problem of the Backward Classes is really the problem of Rural India (p. 55).
It is, however, significant that the Chairman of the Commission who signed the report, confessed to a feeling of grave dissatisfaction with the approach adopted in the report in determining the question as to which committies could be regarded as backward under Article 15(4).
Even though the Chairman thus expressed his distress in very strong language over the basis adopted by the Commission, he ultimately agreed to the proposal of the Commission for the reservation of seats for Backward Classes to the extent of 70 per cent.
The Central Government apparently did not feel satisfied about the approach adopted by the Commission in determining as to who should be treated as Backward Classes under Article 15(4).
The memorandum issued by the Government of India on the report of the Commission points out that it cannot be denied that the caste system is the greatest hindrance in the way of our progress towards an egaliterian society, and the recognition of the specified castes as backward may serve to maintain and even prepetuate the existing distinctions on the basis of castes.
The memorandum, therefore, emphasised that action on a systematic and elaborate basis can be proceeded with only after the necessary positive tests and criteria have been laid down for determining which classes or sections are really entitled to get special relief and assistance.
In this connection, it would be interesting to refer to the report made by the Commissioner for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in 1959.
According to the Report, there are ample reasons to conclude that social backwardness is based mainly on racial, tribal, caste and denominational differences, even though economic backwardness might have contributed to social backwardness.
With regard to the Muslims, the majority of the Committee agreed that the Muslim community as a whole should be classified as socially backward.
That is how according to the Committee, 68% was carved out by reservation for the betterment of the Backward Classes and the Scheduled Castes and Tribes.
Whether the impugned order is void under Articles 15(1) and 29(2) and should not be enforced against the petitioners?
Whether the impugned order is a colourable exercise of the State's power and amounts to a fraud on the Constitution?
Whether the classification made by the order is irrational and the reservation of 68% made by it is a fraud on Article 15(4)?
Whether the reservation made under Article 16(4) beyond the permissible and legitimate limits would be liable to be challenged as a fraud on the Constitution?
Whether the reservation of 68% directed by the impugned order is plainly inconsistent with Article 15(4)?
An executive action which is patently and plainly outside the limits of the constitutional authority conferred on the State in that behalf is struck down as being ultra vires the State's authority.
Therefore, it follows that the impugned order is a fraud on the Constitutional power conferred on the State by Article 15(4).
We do not see how it would be possible to sever the invalid provisions of the impugned order.
However, we may observe that if any State adopts such a measure, it may afford relief to and assist the advancement of the Backward Classes in the State, because backwardness, social and educational, is ultimately and primarily due to poverty.
The context, therefore, requires that the executive action taken by the State must be based on an objective approach, free from all extraneous pressures.
The said action is intended to do social and economic justice and must be taken in a manner that justice is and should be done.
The propriety, the reasonableness or the wisdom of the impugned order was not questioned because it was not the respondent's case that if the order was justified under Article 16(4), it was a fraud on the Constitution.
Therefore, what is true in regard to Article 15(4) is equally true in regard to Article 16(4).
Therefore, like the special provision improperly made under Article 15(4), reservation made under Article 16(4) beyond the permissible and legitimate limits would be liable to be challenged as a fraud on the Constitution.
In this connection it is necessary to emphasise that Article 15(4) like Article 16(4) is an enabling provision; it does not impose an obligation, but merely leaves it to the discretion of the appropriate Government to take suitable action, if necessary.
In the result, we allow the writ petitions and direct that an appropriate writ or order or direction should be issued restraining the three respondents from giving effect to the impugned order in terms of the prayer made in clauses (i) and (ii) of para 38 of the petitions.