The State of West Bengal sued the Union of India for a declaration that Parliament is not competent to make a law authorizing the Union Government to acquire land and rights in or over land, which are vested in a State.
The Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act (20 of 1957) enacted by the Parliament, and particularly Sections 4 and 7 thereof, were ultra vires.
The legislative competence of Parliament, as also for an injunction restraining the defendant from proceeding under the provisions of those sections of the Act in respect of the coal-bearing lands vested in the plaintiff.
Whether Parliament has the competence to make a law authorizing the Union Government to acquire land and rights in or over land, which are vested in a State.
Whether the Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act (20 of 1957) enacted by the Parliament, and particularly Sections 4 and 7 thereof, were ultra vires.
Whether the State of West Bengal is a sovereign authority.
The State of West Bengal argued that Parliament is not competent to make a law authorizing the Union Government to acquire land and rights in or over land, which are vested in a State.
The Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act (20 of 1957) enacted by the Parliament, and particularly Sections 4 and 7 thereof, were ultra vires.
It was also argued that the State of West Bengal is a sovereign authority.
The Union of India argued that the power to acquire the property of a citizen for a public purpose is one of the implied powers of the sovereign.
Prima facie, therefore Entry 42 of List III can only mean acquisition and requisitioning of private property by a State.
The suit was dismissed with costs.
Parliament has the competence to make a law authorizing the Union Government to acquire land and rights in or over land, which are vested in a State.
The Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act (20 of 1957) enacted by the Parliament, and particularly Sections 4 and 7 thereof, were not ultra vires.
The State of West Bengal is not a sovereign authority.
A statute, as passed by Parliament, is the expression of the collective intention of the legislature as a whole, and any statement made by an individual, albeit a Minister, of the intention and objects of the Act cannot be used to cut down the generality of the words used in the statute.
The impugned Act was to vest powers in the Union Government to work coal mines and in that context the word aStatea could obviously refer only to Union Government.
The power under Entry 42 can therefore never be effectively exercised by the Parliament.
The Parliamentary power of legislation to acquire property is, subject to the express provisions of the Constitution, unrestricted.
Parliament has the competence to make a law authorizing the Union Government to acquire land and rights in or over land, which are vested in a State.
The Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act (20 of 1957) enacted by the Parliament, and particularly Sections 4 and 7 thereof, were not ultra vires.
The State of West Bengal is not a sovereign authority.