The plaintiffs filed a suit against the defendants for breach of copyright and misuse of confidential information.
The plaintiffs claimed that the defendants had infringed their copyright in the original work titled ?Krish Kanhaiyya?
and were proceeding with broadcasting their television serial ?Kanhaiyya?.
The plaintiffs alleged that the defendants had copied the concept notes, character sketches, detailed plots, and main story lines of ?Krish Kanhaiyya?
and created a serial with a few cosmetic changes.
The plaintiffs also claimed that the defendants had breached confidentiality by misusing the information provided to them.
The plaintiffs had sent a detailed concept note, character sketches, and plots of the first episode and ten episodic plots of ?Krish Kanhaiyya?
to the defendant No. 1.
The defendant No. 1 had not yet decided to air and broadcast the serial ?Krish Kanhaiyya?.
The plaintiffs did not hear from the defendants and pursued the production of the show with Sony Entertainment Television.
Sony Entertainment Television declined to sign the contract after learning that Zee Television, the defendants, were going to produce and broadcast serial ?Kanhaiyya?
from 9th March 2003.
The plaintiffs contended that the defendants' infringing copy was distinctly similar to that of the original work of the plaintiffs in all material ways with a few cosmetic changes.
Whether the defendants had breached confidentiality by misusing the information provided to them?
Whether the defendants had infringed the plaintiffs' copyright in the work of ?Krish Kanhaiyya??
Whether the defendants had wrongfully represented the plaintiffs' work as their own?
Whether there is copyright in a mere concept or an idea?
The court granted an ad interim injunction restraining the defendants from infringing the copyright of the plaintiffs' original work titled ?Krish Kanhaiyya?
and proceeding further with broadcasting of their television serial ?Kanhaiyya?.
The court found in favour of the plaintiffs on the issues of breach of confidentiality and infringement of their copyright.
The court held that the defendants had unlawfully copied the plaintiffs' original work.
The court did not express any opinion on the issue of reverse passing off and kept it open.
The court dismissed the appeals and made the Notice of Motion No. 783 of 2003 absolute in terms of prayer clauses (a) to (f) and (h).
The court held that the law of confidence is different from the law of copyright.
However, if the ideas or information have been acquired by a person under such circumstances that it would be a breach of good faith to publish them and he has no just case or excuses for doing so, the court may grant injunction against him.
In this case, the plaintiffs had sent a detailed concept note, character sketches, and plots of the first episode and ten episodic plots of ?Krish Kanhaiyya?
to the defendant No. 1.
The defendant No. 1 had not yet decided to air and broadcast the serial ?Krish Kanhaiyya?.
The plaintiffs did not hear from the defendants and pursued the production of the show with Sony Entertainment Television.
Sony Entertainment Television declined to sign the contract after learning that Zee Television, the defendants, were going to produce and broadcast serial ?Kanhaiyya?
from 9th March 2003.
The court held that the defendants had breached confidentiality by misusing the information provided to them.
The court held that there cannot be a copyright in an idea per se.
The novelty and innovation of the concept of the plaintiff resides in combining a reality TV show with a subject like match making for the purpose of marriage.
The court held that the plaintiffs' claim was not merely in an idea but in the embodiment of the idea in tangible form.
The court held that the defendants had unlawfully copied the plaintiffs' original work and infringed their copyright.
Case Law Cited
Fraser v. Thames Television Ltd. (1983) 2 All E.R 101
Anil Gupta v. Kunal Das Gupta, 97 (2002) Delhi Law Times 257