The plaintiff holds a patent for the drug Erlotinib.
The defendant is accused of infringing the patent by manufacturing, offering for sale, selling and exporting the drug.
The plaintiff seeks an ad interim injunction to restrain the defendant from these activities.
The parties filed their pleadings and supporting documents in the suit and interlocutory proceedings.
The application was heard and disposed of.
Is the plaintiff entitled to an ad interim injunction?
Is the defendant's claim that the patent is not valid credible?
Is the defendant's product a life-saving drug?
The plaintiff argues that Erlotinib is a new compound, not a derivative of a known substance, and therefore is patentable under Section 3(d) of the Patents Act.
The plaintiff denies the defendant's claim of evergreening and argues that the patent is only being challenged in India.
The plaintiff argues that the defendant cannot claim their products are new and invented goods by reverse engineering.
The plaintiff argues that the defendant's claim that the specification contains irrelevant and misleading information is unmerited.
The plaintiff argues that they did not deliberately withhold any material information and were not allowed to amend the specification of their patent claim.
The defendant argues that the patent was wrongly granted and is liable to be revoked because of obviousness and lack of inventive step.
The defendant argues that the plaintiff's test of efficacy has to be satisfied on the basis of the date of filing of the patent and no material of a later date can be entertained to prove efficacy.
The defendant argues that the plaintiff's product is not significantly different in efficacy compared to the prior art and therefore is not patentable under Section 3(d) of the Patents Act.
The defendant argues that the plaintiff's action is based on a recent patent and is wrongly granted.
The defendant argues that the plaintiff's claim does not sufficiently describe the inventive step, a vital precondition for the grant of a valid patent.
The defendant argues that the defendant has a right to seek revocation of the patent under Section 64 of the Patents Act.
The defendant argues that the defendant's product Erlotinib is a life-saving drug and an injunction would deny access to the general public.
The court held that the plaintiff is not entitled to claim an ad interim injunction in the terms sought.
The defendant's claim that the patent is not valid is credible and the defendant's product is a life-saving drug.
The court dismissed IA 642/2008, subject to the directions in the preceding paragraph.