The case was instituted as writ petitions under Article 226 of the Constitution before the Sikkim High Court and later transferred to the Supreme Court of India.
Sikkim merged with India in 1975.
Two constitutional questions arise in this case:
Whether a seat can be earmarked in the Legislature of a State after its complete merger in India for a representative of a group of religious institutions to be elected by them.
Whether seats can be reserved in favour of a particular tribe far in excess of its population.
Bhutia-Lepchas were declared as Scheduled Tribes in relation to the State of Sikkim in 1978.
Provisions for reservation of seats in favour of Bhutias-Lepchas and the "Sangha" have been challenged.
Article 371-F was inserted in the Constitution by the Constitution (Thirty-sixth Amendment) Act, 1975.
The admission of Sikkim in the Indian Union was not based on any treaty or agreement between the Chogyal of Sikkim and the Government of India.
Issues:
Whether the impugned provisions of the Representation of the People Acts are ultra vires the Constitution and cannot be saved by Article 371-F(f).
Whether the terms and conditions on which Sikkim was admitted in Union of India are open to scrutiny by the courts.
Whether the impugned provisions of the Representation of the People Acts are violative of the basic features of the Constitution.
Whether the provision for reservation of seats is violative of the right guaranteed under Article 15(1) of the Constitution.
Whether the provisions contained in Section 25-A of the 1950 Act and Section 5-A(2)(c) of the 1951 Act are violative of Article 325 of the Constitution.
Whether these provisions are inconsistent with the concept of secularism which is a basic feature of the Constitution.
Whether the provisions of clause (f) of Article 371-F of the Constitution require reservation of seats for Sikkimese of Nepali origin in the State legislature.
Arguments:
The writ petitioner contends that the impugned provisions of the Representation of the People Acts are ultra vires the Constitution and cannot be saved by Article 371-F(f).
The submission is further that since the terms and conditions on which Sikkim was admitted in Union of India, are political in nature, the said terms and conditions cannot be made the subject-matter of challenge before this Court because the law is well settled that courts do not adjudicate upon questions which are political in nature.
Shri Jain has contended that the said provision for reservation is destructive of Democracy which is a basic feature of the Constitution.
Shri Jain has urged that the provision in Section 7(1-A)(c) of the 1950 Act is violative of the right guaranteed under Article 15(1) of the Constitution.
Shri Jain has also urged that provisions contained in Section 25-A of the 1950 Act and Section 5-A(2)(c) of the 1951 Act are violative of Article 325 of the Constitution.
The submission of Shri Jain is that these provisions are inconsistent with the concept of secularism which is a basic feature of the Constitution.
Analysis:
The scope of the power conferred by Article 371-F is subject to judicial review.
Parliament cannot admit a new State into the Indian Union on terms and conditions which derogate from the basic features of the Constitution.
The provisions for reservation of seats in favour of Bhutias-Lepchas and the "Sangha" are violative of the Constitution.
The provision for reservation of seats is violative of the right guaranteed under Article 15(1) of the Constitution.
The provisions contained in Section 25-A of the 1950 Act and Section 5-A(2)(c) of the 1951 Act are violative of Article 325 of the Constitution.
These provisions are inconsistent with the concept of secularism which is a basic feature of the Constitution.
Reservation of seats for Sikkimese of Nepali origin is not required in order to protect their rights and interests.
Conclusion:
The impugned provisions of the Representation of the People Acts are ultra vires the Constitution including Article 371-F(f).
The provisions for reservation of seats in favour of Bhutias-Lepchas and the "Sangha" are violative of the Constitution.
The provisions contained in Section 25-A of the 1950 Act and Section 5-A(2)(c) of the 1951 Act are violative of Article 325 of the Constitution.
These provisions are inconsistent with the concept of secularism which is a basic feature of the Constitution.
Reservation of seats for Sikkimese of Nepali origin is not required in order to protect their rights and interests.