The appellant (defendant) has been restrained, till the disposal of the suit, from ?infringing?
the respondents (plaintiff's) registered trademark ?Yo!?
per se or in conjunction with any logo/mark/letters, or otherwise trading under the mark ?Yo!?
or any other deceptively similar mark thereto or colourable imitation thereof, whether by using the expression by itself or as part of any other mark/name in respect of goods covered by the registration obtained by the respondent.
The respondent claims exclusive right to use the marks ?Yo!?
and ?Yo!
China?.
The respondent filed the said suit alleging that the use of the mark ?Yo!?
by appellant in the same manner as the registered trade mark ?Yo!?
of the respondent was a clear case of infringement.
The appellant's packaged noodles are well distinguished by the well known trade mark MAGGI and its distinctive packaging.
Whether infringement under section 29(1) is made out?
Whether infringement of the kind referred to in section 29(4) is made out?
Whether the expressions ?Masala Yo!?
and ?Chilly Chow Yo!?
can be said to be flavour descriptors and hence eligible for protection under section 30(2)(a) of the said Act against an infringement action?
The appeal is allowed and the impugned order is set aside.
Section 29(1) requires that the use by the defendant of a mark which is identical to the plaintiff's trade mark amounts to infringement.
However, the mark ?Yo?
has not been used as a trade mark nor is its use likely to be taken as being used as a trade mark.
Consequently, infringement under section 29(1) is not made out.
Clause (a) of section 29(4) requires that the mark in question be identical with or similar to the registered trade mark.
The mark ?Yo?
and the registered trade mark ?Yo!
China?, taken as a whole, are neither identical nor similar.
Thus, infringement of the kind referred to in section 29(4) is also not made out.
At this interlocutory stage the least that can be said is that the appellant's submission that the mark ?Yo?
has been used as part of a flavour descriptor is at least an arguable one and cannot be shut out at the threshold.
The learned Single Judge found, prima facie, that ?Yo!?
and ?Yo!
China?
had acquired distinctiveness through usage since 2002.
On the contrary, the use of the mark ?Yo?, retains its primary meaning of inviting attention or as an exclamation.
Hence, the question is whether the expressions ?Masala Yo!?
and ?Chilly Chow Yo!?
can be said to be flavour descriptors and hence eligible for protection under section 30(2)(a) of the said Act against an infringement action?