The case concerns the function of rendering 'advice' relating to appointment of Judges under Articles 124(2) and 217(1) of the Constitution.
The court held that the function stands confined to the judicial functionaries and excluded from the scope of advice rendered by the Council of Ministers under Article 74(1) of the Constitution.
The total insulation of judiciary from all forms of influence from the executive and other branches of Government is a basic feature of the Constitution.
Seniority in the matter of appointment of Chief Justice of India is the unwritten rule of Article 124(2).
There was and is no apparent or compelling reason for excluding puisne Judges (of the Supreme Court and of the High Court) from the “consulting zone”.
Article 216 stipulates a constitutional obligation which can be enforced in a court of law and the exercise of power under Article 216 is not in the realm of executive discretion.
Primacy of the Chief Justice of India Article 217 confers on the President a duty to consult three constitutional functionaries.
The Royal Commission (of Australia) on Courts, chaired by Justice Beattle, recommended that a Judicial Commission should consider all judicial appointments including appointment of High Court Judges.
The salaries, allowances and pensions payable to the Judges of the Supreme Court are charged on the Consolidated Fund of India as mandated by Article 112(3)(d)(i).
The existing constitutional protective conditions attached to the judicial office are more than sufficient to preserve the independence of the judiciary.
Judges should be of stern stuff and tough fibre, unbending before power, economic or political, and they must uphold the core principle of the rule of law.
Some of the qualification clauses of that section opened up a possibility of Indians being appointed as High Court Judges with a concept of quota reservation.
It is obligatory upon the President before making an appointment of a Judge to the Supreme Court other than the Chief Justice of India to consult the CJI.
The Governor cannot discharge his function under Article 233 if he makes an appointment of a person without ascertaining the High Court's views in regard thereto.
Consultation should have sinews to achieve the constitutional purpose and should not be rendered sterile by a literal interpretation.”
All the above amendments were rejected after a long deliberation in the Constituent Assembly.
The need for periodical revision of the Judge-strength is essentially to ensure early disposal of court cases.
The Court did not keep in view the well-established rules of constitutional interpretation.
Conventions are a means of bringing about constitutional development without formal changes in the law.
The Home Minister was categorical in his statement that from 1950 onwards all the appointments to the Supreme Court and 210 out of 211 to the High Courts were made with the consent and concurrence of the Chief Justice of India.
In either case the final decision is with the consultor, but he will not generally ignore the advice except for good reasons.”
Whether rendering 'advice' relating to appointment of Judges under Articles 124(2) and 217(1) of the Constitution is confined to the judicial functionaries?
Whether the opinion of the CJI is entitled to have the right of primacy in the matter of selection of Judges to the Supreme Court as well as the High Courts?
Whether the executive is bound by the advice/recommendation of the Chief Justice of India in the process of consultation under Articles 124(2) and 217(1) of the Constitution?
The total insulation of judiciary from all forms of influence from the executive and other branches of Government is a basic feature of the Constitution.
The existing constitutional protective conditions attached to the judicial office are more than sufficient to preserve the independence of the judiciary.
The need for periodical revision of the Judge-strength is essentially to ensure early disposal of court cases.
The opinion of the CJI is entitled to have the right of primacy in the matter of selection of Judges to the Supreme Court as well as the High Courts.
The executive is bound by the advice/recommendation of the Chief Justice of India in the process of consultation under Articles 124(2) and 217(1) of the Constitution.
The court held that rendering 'advice' relating to appointment of Judges under Articles 124(2) and 217(1) of the Constitution is confined to the judicial functionaries.
The opinion of the CJI is entitled to have the right of primacy in the matter of selection of Judges to the Supreme Court as well as the High Courts.
The executive is bound by the advice/recommendation of the Chief Justice of India in the process of consultation under Articles 124(2) and 217(1) of the Constitution.