The plaintiff claims to be a pioneer in the agarbathi industry with various innovating marketing techniques as also packaging.
The mark LIA is stated to be distinctive and arbitrary in nature as the word ?LIA?
has no meaning.
The plaintiff claims to own all the common law rights in the LIA brandname and all the various products in the said range.
The plaintiff is aggrieved by the products sold by the defendants, which are claimed to be identical to that of the plaintiff's LIA cartons.
The DIA range of agarbathies of the defendants is being sold in identical fashion in respect of six of plaintiff's LIA products.
The plaintiff alleges that the defendants' act amount to an attempt to pass off its goods as that of the plaintiff, an act of unfair competition, infringement of copyright of the plaintiff and dilution.
The plaintiff has prayed for a decree of permanent injunction in respect of six packages of DIA products in question, which are similar to the LIA products; decree for delivery up; and for damages of Rs. 21,50,000/-.
The defendants have contested the suit and one of the principal defences is that the trademark of the defendants is not DIA, but LOTUS DIA.
The allegation of passing off has been denied and it has been claimed that the plaintiff has, in fact, come with unclean hands before the Court.
Whether the defendants' act amount to an attempt to pass off its goods as that of the plaintiff?
Whether the plaintiff is entitled to any relief of injunction or damages?
Whether the mark of the defendants is a composite mark LOTUS DIA and not merely DIA and, thus, the passing off action should be totally ruled out?
Decision: The overall visual impression from the colour scheme, the arrangement of the mark, the style of writing of the mark, the general getup and trade dress leads to the conclusion that there is a clear attempt on the part of the defendants to pass off their goods as that of the plaintiff and, thus, the test laid in Parle Products (P) Ltd.'s case is clearly satisfied.
The packaging is identical and so is the pricing.
The decree would operate in respect of the offending packaging in question or any deceptively similar packaging to that of the plaintiff sold under the tradename LIA and the manner of the representation of colour schemes in the range of the products.
The suit is decreed with costs.