The plaintiffs claim to be pioneers in their respective fields of publishing academic, scientific and other educational books which are circulated worldwide.
The plaintiffs allege that the defendants are diverting Low Price Edition books, which are meant for sale in India and its neighbouring states, to the USA, UK and other countries for which the books are not meant.
The plaintiffs claim that this amounts to infringement of their copyright in the said books.
In August 2008, the plaintiffs ordered 5 titles from the defendants' bookstore on the internet and recorded confirmation for multiple titles and receipt of US $ 15280.
Accordingly, the plaintiffs have filed this suit to restrain the defendants from infringing their copyright by exporting their books to countries outside the territories prescribed on the publications of the plaintiffs.
Whether the act of exporting the plaintiffs' Low Price Edition books to countries outside the territories prescribed on the publications of the plaintiffs amounts to infringement of copyright under the Copyright Act, 1957.
Ruling: The Court held that the defendants' act of exporting the plaintiffs' Low Price Edition books to countries outside the territories prescribed on the publications of the plaintiffs amounts to prima facie infringement of copyright under the Copyright Act, 1957.
The Court granted a temporary injunction till the disposal of the suit restraining the defendants and their agents, assigns and sister concerns from advertising, offering for sale/exporting any publications of the plaintiffs to the countries outside the territories specified on the books published by the plaintiffs.
The Court held that the rights of the owners of copyright are defined under Sections 13 and 14 of the Copyright Act, 1957.
Copyright shall not subsist in the case of a work or architecture, copyright shall subsist only in the artistic character and design and shall not extend to processes or methods or construction.
The Court further held that the rights conferred under Section 14 of the Act are subject to the provisions of the Act.
The Court also held that the primary infringement of the copyright under Section 51(a) of the Act is the violation of the rights conferred upon the owner of the copyright.
The Court applied the plain rule and gave it its natural and existing meaning, and held that Section 51 of the Copyright Act talks about infringement of the rights of the owner which are different from that of the licensee.
The Court held that the owner's right is not absolute but is curtailed by the first sale doctrine.
The Court further held that the doctrine of exhaustion of rights will be confined to literary works only and will be inapplicable to the cinematograph works.
The Court held that the defendants' act of exporting the plaintiffs' Low Price Edition books to countries outside the territories prescribed on the publications of the plaintiffs amounts to prima facie infringement of copyright under the Copyright Act, 1957.
The Court granted a temporary injunction till the disposal of the suit restraining the defendants and their agents, assigns and sister concerns from advertising, offering for sale/exporting any publications of the plaintiffs to the countries outside the territories specified on the books published by the plaintiffs.