Whether the importation and sale of printers in India by the appellants, without the consent of the respondents, amounted to an infringement of the respondents' Trade Mark, and whether Section 30(3) of the Trade Marks Act 1999 operates as an exception to Section 29 and confers any additional rights.
The appellants are a part of aSamsung Group of Companiesa having 14 listed companies and 285 worldwide operations.
The respondents claim that the importation and sale of printers in India by the appellants is unauthorized and illegal.
The appellants argue that the sale of the product is legal and valid as they sell the product as it is, and that the respondents do not manufacture the printers in India and import them from abroad as well.
The learned Single Judge has analyzed Section 29 and Section 30 of the Trade Marks Act 1999 to conclude that the import of Samsung products for sale in the Indian market without the consent of the respondents amounted to an infringement of the respondents' Trade Mark.
The learned Single Judge has also opined that Section 30(3) of the Trade Marks Act 1999 serves merely as an exception, by limiting some of the rights conferred upon the registered proprietor.
The learned Single Judge has further held that the Principle of Exhaustion in Section 30(4) of the Trade Marks Act 1999 recognizes limited rights of the proprietor to prohibit further sale of the goods.
The appellants have appealed against the decision.
The appeal is partially allowed.
The court has concluded that athe marketa contemplated by Section 30(3) of the Trade Marks Act 1999 is the international market, and that the legislation in India adopts the Principle of International Exhaustion of Rights.
The court has also clarified that the action is for infringement and not one for passing off, and that Section 30(4) of the Trade Marks Act 1999 embraces all legitimate reasons to oppose further dealings in the goods.
The opinion expressed is prima-facie for the purposes of deciding the application filed by the respondents seeking interim injunction and would not be construed as a conclusive opinion with reference to the facts.
The final decision would be keeping in view the evidence led.
Section 29(1) of the Trade Marks Act 1999 does not distinguish between the import of genuine and non-genuine goods.
Section 30(3) of the Trade Marks Act 1999 serves merely as an exception, by limiting some of the rights conferred upon the registered proprietor.
Once the goods have been lawfully acquired, sale of goods or further dealings have to be in the same market.
The court has analyzed Section 30(3) of the Trade Marks Act 1999 to conclude that athe marketa contemplated by it is the international market, and that the legislation in India adopts the Principle of International Exhaustion of Rights.
The court has also clarified that Section 30(4) of the Trade Marks Act 1999 embraces all legitimate reasons to oppose further dealings in the goods.
The court has partially allowed the appeal and clarified that the legislation in India adopts the Principle of International Exhaustion of Rights in the field of the Trade Mark Law.
The court has also clarified that Section 30(4) of the Trade Marks Act 1999 embraces all legitimate reasons to oppose further dealings in the goods.