IAs3986/2018 & 5096/2018 in CS(COMM) 749/2018 IA No4771/2018 in CS(COMM) 792/2018 IA No9332/2018 in CS(COMM) 1023/2018 These are three suits filed by the plaintiffs seeking a decree of permanent injunction to restrain the defendants from marketing, selling, distributing, etc. any product that infringes the subject matter of Indian Patent Nos.
IN 209907 (hereinafter referred to as ―IN 907‖, i.e. the Species Patent), IN 247984 (hereinafter referred to as ―IN 984‖, i.e. the Polymorph Patent) and IN 272674 (hereinafter referred to as ―IN 674‖, i.e. the Formulation Patent).
By the present judgment, I will deal with the injunction applications filed by the plaintiffs being IA No. 3986/2018 filed in CS(COMM) 749/2018, IA No4771/2018 filed in CS(COMM) 792/2018, IA No9332/2018 filed in CS(COMM) 1023/2018 and IA 5096/2018 filed in CS(Comm.)
749/2018 by the defendants under Order 39 Rule 4 CPC seeking vacation of the interim orders.
The injunction applications are filed under Order 39 Rule 1 and 2 CPC seeking an injunction to restrain the defendants from selling, marketing or dealing with TICAGRELOR or any product which is in violation of the registered patent of the plaintiff's company IN 907, IN 984 and IN 674.
CS(COMM) 749/2018 came up for hearing on 22.03.2018 when in IA No. 3986/2018 this court passed an interim order in favour of the plaintiffs restraining the defendants from selling, marketing or dealing with TICAGRELOR tablet or any drug which is in violation of the registered patents of the plaintiffs being IN 907, IN 984, and IN 674.
On 23042018 a similar interim order was passed in IA No4771/2018 in CS(COMM) 792/2018.
This court had then noted that when the written statement was filed a stand had been taken by the defendants that they had not launched the drug in question.
However, this court on 23042018 noted that while the matter was pending in court, the defendant had launched the drug.
In CS(COMM) 1023/2008, a similar interim order was passed on 18072018 in IA No. 9332/2018.
The case of the plaintiff is that the drug TICAGRELOR falls within the scope of Indian Patent No.907 and 984.
The finished formulation of TICAGRELOR is said to be covered within the scope of IN 674.
The said compound TICAGRELOR is said to have proved to be an effective platelet aggregation inhibitor.
The said TICAGRELOR is the INN (international non- proprietary name) assigned to the molecule having the IUPAC name (1S,2S,3R,5S)-3-[7-[(1R,2S)-2-(3,4-Difluorophenyl) cyclopropylamino] 5- (propylthio)-3H-[l,2,3]triazolo[4,5-d]pyrimidin-3-yl]-5-(2-hydroxyethoxy) cyclopentane-l,2-diol.
The empirical formula of TICAGRELOR is C23H28F2N6O4S and its molecular weight is 52257.
TICAGRELOR has the following structural formula: Claim 1 of IN '907 discloses a class of compounds with the following Markush formula: TICAGRELOR is said to fall within the scope of claim 1 wherein R is OCH2CH2OH1, R' is propyl, R2 is phenyl group substituted by two fluorine atoms, R3 and R4 are hydroxyl groups.
Further, TICAGRELOR is specifically claimed as the third compound in Claim 5 of the said patent.
The process for making TICAGRELOR has also been specifically disclosed in example 3 of IN '907.
The Indian Patent No.907 is said to be a valid and subsisting patent which has remained unchallenged even though it was published way back in the year 2005.
It was not subjected to any pre-grant or post-grant opposition under sections 25(1) and 25(2) of the Patents Act, 1970.
However, in 2015 Micro Labs Limited i.e. defendant No.2 in CS(COMM) 749/2018 filed a petition for revocation of the said patent which is said to be pending before the Intellectual Property Appellate Board.
The plaintiff has also made reference to two other patents including Indian Patent No.984(polymorph patent) which is said to be a Crystalline form of A Triazolo (4.5-D) Pyrimidine Compound.
It is stated that four Crystalline forms of TICAGRELOR are disclosed in patent No.
Similarly, reference is made to Indian Patent No.674(formulation patent) which relates to a pharmaceutical composition of TICAGRELOR.
It is said to be disclosed in claims 1-10 of IN 674.
It is pleaded that by virtue of section 48 of the Patents Act, the plaintiffs have exclusive rights to prevent others from making, using, selling, offering for sale or importing TICAGRELOR as well as its crystalline form (IN ‗984) and its finished formulation (as claimed in IN'674) or any other product that falls within the scope of the claims of IN'907 and the above two noted patents.
TICAGRELOR is said to be an antiplatelet drug prescribed to patients who have suffered a recent heart attack or unstable angina (chest pain) for reducing the chances of a thrombotic events such as a heart attack or a stroke.
It is stated that before the introduction of TICAGRELOR, despite the widespread adoption of intensive monitoring and prompt treatment with existing medications, approximately 1 in 3 ACS patients died or had a repeat myocardial infraction, or required re-hospitalisation within six months.
TICAGRELOR works by preventing the formation of new blood clots, thus maintaining blood flow in the body to help reduce the risk of another cardiovascular event.
It is stated that TICAGRELOR was first approved in the USA in 2011 and is marketed under the trademark BRILINTA.
In India the plaintiff received drug regulatory approval in May 2012 and was commercially launched in India in October 2012 under the same trademark BRILINTA.
In CS(COMM) 749/2018 where defendant No.2 is Micro Labs Ltd, the plaintiff states that in the month of March 2018 plaintiff received business information through credible market sources that the defendants are planning to launch a generic version of TICAGRELOR under the probable name BIGRELOR in the first week of April 2018.
It was also learnt that the defendants have printed their packaging for their generic product and their representatives are speaking with doctors about the same.
It is stated that the defendants have filed revocation petition in respect of trademark IN 984 and IN 907 before the Intellectual Property Appellate Board (IPAB).
It was pleaded that the acts of the defendant would cause immense damage to the plaintiff's business and public interest which cannot be accounted for in monetary terms.
It would also be in blatant disregard of the plaintiff's intellectual property rights.
In CS(COMM) 792/2018, where defendant No.2 is Natco Pharma Ltd, the plaintiff has been pleaded that in the first week of April 2018, the plaintiffs received business information regarding the plan of the defendants to launch a generic version of TICAGRELOR in the third week of April 2018.
It has also been stated that the defendants have uploaded their product list on the website where TICAGRELOR has been listed under the category of ‗APIs-Under Development‖ It has also been pleaded that to the plaintiffs' best knowledge, the defendants have not yet commercially launched/marketed TICAGRELOR but based on the background facts and credible business intelligence, the defendants' imminent launch of the product TICAGRELOR has been received by the plaintiffs.
It has also been pleaded that the defendants are known habitual offenders.
In CS(COMM) 1023/2018, where the defendant is Dr.Reddy's Laboratories Ltd the plaintiff has pleaded that in April 2018, plaintiff No.2 received certain caveats filed by the defendant which were vague and unambiguous.
On 17072018, it is stated that the plaintiffs received business information that the defendant is planning to launch a generic version of TICAGRELOR under the brand name TICAFLO.
In fact, it is pleaded, the defendant has taken steps to introduce and offer the same for sale to its business partners and C&F Agents.
The defendant has also obtained a manufacturing license for TICAGRELOR and is ready for a full commercial launch of the product.
The defendants have filed their respective written statement to submit that the suit has no merit.
I may note some of salient submissions made which are relevant for disposal of these applications.
In CS (COMM) 749/2018 (defendant No.2 here is Micro Labs Ltd) the defendant has broadly pleaded in the written statement as follows: (i) that the pharmaceutical formulation containing TICAGRELOR is purportedly sold in India by the plaintiffs under the name BRILINTA and AXCER.
It is stated that it is the own admission of the plaintiff that the formulation is not manufactured in India but is apparently imported from Sweden and China.
It is stated that the plaintiffs' own affirmations before Regulatory Agencies, Courts and different patent offices would show that TICAGRELOR is covered by several patents with different dates of expiry including Indian Patent 241229 and its equivalents.
(ii) It is further pleaded that the plaintiffs have deliberately suppressed material facts.
The plaintiff has failed to mention that the patent No241229 (the genus patent) expressly covers and discloses TICAGRELOR and has expired on 1472018.
It is stated that the plaintiff has given a false impression that the TICAGRELOR cannot be recognized from the said patent No241229.
It is pleaded that there is sufficient material which also comprises admissions by the plaintiffs to show that TICAGRELOR is encompassed and claimed in IN241229 (hereinafter referred to as IN 229) and its equivalent patents across the world.
Reliance is placed on Form 27 filed in India for IN 229 which expressly refers to BRILINTA and AXCER products being covered by IN 229.
Reliance is also made on Patent Term Extension request filed before USPTO in respect of US 910(equivalent to IN ).
Reference is also made to other such documents to plead that there are clear admissions of the plaintiff that TICAGRELOR is encompassed and claimed in IN 229 which patent expired on 14072018.
(iii) It is further pleaded that the plaintiffs have deliberately failed to state and mention that the foreign patent equivalents of the said patents have been held invalid in contested proceedings.
Reference is made to the proceedings in China, Europe and South Korea.
(iv) It is further pleaded that the present case is a textbook instance of patent Ever-greening by the plaintiffs perpetuated with the intent of illegally extending patent monopoly granted to them vide IN'229 with respect to TICAGRELOR.
It is pleaded that any party in India is free to manufacture or sell a generic version of TICAGRELOR after expiry of IN'229 on 1472018.
It is further stated that the malafide of the plaintiff is also established by the fact that the plaintiffs sought illegal extension of this patent monopoly available under IN'229 as is evident from the fact that the plaintiffs have filed/obtained patent protection with respect to the same Markush, namely, TICAGRELOR subsequently in IN'907 and IN'984 as well.
(v) It is further pleaded that the plaintiffs are guilty of latches and delay.
It is pleaded that the plaintiffs were aware about the factum of grant of approvals by the Indian Drug Regulator to defendant No.2 to manufacture TICAGRELOR in 2015.
Hence, it is pleaded that the averments made in the plaint that the plaintiff had knowledge about the launch of the defendants' product in only 2017 and thereafter is absolutely false.
(vi) It is further stated that the defendants are neither manufacturing nor selling any products claimed by the suit patents.
Therefore, there is no case for infringement of the suit patent.
It is stated that defendant No.2 has not commercialized the pending TICAGRELOR in any form and does not intend to do so at least till 1472018 when IN'229 expires.
(vii) It is further stated that no part of the cause of action has arisen in Delhi.
It is further stated in the written statement that the suit patents are invalid on the grounds stated in section 64 of the Indian Patent Act.
It is pleaded that under section 107 of the Act, every ground under which a patent can be revoked based on Section 64 is available as a defence in a suit for infringement.
Regarding the patent IN 907 the following broad submissions are raised: (i) Reliance is placed on Section 64(1)(a) of the Patents Act to state that IN 907 lacks novelty as the same is comprehensively covered in IN 229 which has an earlier priority date than IN 907 i.e. 22071997.
Compounds as disclosed and covered in IN 907 are known and anticipated through prior claiming based on IN 229.
Such compounds are easily developed by a person skilled in the art based on performing routine/regular experimentation including making substitution as disclosed in IN 229.
Hence, it is prayed that IN 907 is liable to be revoked being invalid based on anticipation by prior claiming through IN 229.
(ii) Reliance is also placed on Section 64(1) (f) of the Act to contend that the claims in IN 907 are obvious to a person skilled in the art and do not involve any inventive steps on the basis of prior art documents which provide sufficient teaching, suggestion and motivation to enable a person skilled in the art to prepare the compounds claimed in the impugned patents.
There is sufficient teaching also in the common general knowledge that was prevalent in the field of drug designing/pharmaceuticals/chemistry before the priority date of the suit patent.
(iii) Reliance is also placed on Section 64(1)(d) and 64(1)(k) of the Act to state that the subject matter of the claims IN 907 does not qualify as an invention within the meaning of the Patents Act and is invalid and liable to be revoked.
It is reiterated that the compound TICAGRELOR lacks novelty being comprehensively anticipated by prior claiming through the claims in IN 229.
It is reiterated that this is admitted by the plaintiff by their affirmative acts when they filed Form 27 from 2012 to 2018 for IN 229 and IN 907.
(iv) Reliance is also placed on Section 64(1)(h) to submit that complete specifications to sufficiently and fairly describe the invention have not been given.
Reliance is also placed on Section 64(1)(j) to plead that the patent was obtained by false suggestions and representations.
(v) Reliance is also placed on Section 64(1)(m) to claim that the applicant failed to disclose to the Controller information required under Section 8 of the Act.
Somewhat identical submissions are made to submit that the patent IN 984 and IN 674 are invalid.
In CS(COMM) 1023/2018, written statement has been filed after the arguments were concluded.
Defendant here is Dr.Reddy's Laboratories Ltd The following broad defences have been raised by the said defendant to plead that the suit is devoid of merits:- (i) It is pleaded that the plaintiffs' own case is that the TICAGRELOR is covered within the generic scope of IN 229 genus patent which has expired on 14072018.
However, to overcome the effect of the expiry of the said patent, the plaintiffs are trying to create a false dichotomy between coverage and disclosure by asserting that IN 229 generically covers but does not specifically disclose TICAGRELOR.
It is stated that this false dichotomy of ―coverage‖ and ―disclosure‖ is created to artificially extend its monopoly through subsequent patents on TICAGRELOR.
(ii) It is further pleaded that the plaintiffs have attempted to Ever-Green its invention.
It is stated that the present case is a classic case of Ever- greening of a life saving drug.
It is further stated that primarily patent of IN 229 has expired on 14072018 and that the plaintiffs are cleverly asserting three subsequent patents to overcome the limitation caused due to the said expiry.
It is stated that that the present suit is merely a ploy to artificially extend the period of IN 229.
It is pleaded that the suit patents lack any inventive step.
Further the suit patents do not exhibit any therapeutic efficacy over the known substances disclosed in IN 229It is pleaded that there are no pleadings in the plaint regarding the enhancement of therapeutic efficacy of the subject matter of the suit patents.
Hence, it is stated that the patent of the plaintiff is liable to be revoked under Section 64(1)(K), Section 2(1) (ja) and Section 3(d) of the Patent Act, 1970.
(iii) Reliance is also placed on sections 64(1)(d) and 2(1) (ja) of the Patent Act to claim that a patent can be revoked if it is not an invention under the meaning of the Act.
It is pleaded that the patent IN 907 does not involve any inventive step vis-à-vis the existing knowledge contained in IN 229 patent.
It is stated that the plaintiffs are trying to plead that a person skilled in the art could not have recognized TICAGRELOR from the generic disclosure of IN229.
The plaintiffs also assert that TICAGRELOR is a genus patent over a Markush structure which covers 150 quintillion compounds (15 x 10 20).
It is pleaded that as per the plaintiffs own case, the US counterpart of IN 229 (US ) specifically indentifies and exemplifies 144 compounds, 134 out of which are specifically disclosed in claim 8 of IN 229.
Thus a person skilled in the art does not have to experiment with 150 quintillion compounds but only with 144 or 134 compounds which are readily available for him to further experiment and create/identify derivatives suitable as drug candidates.
(iv) It is further stated that the defendant is selling TICAFLO i.e. TICAGRELOR and TICAGRELOR is generically disclosed in IN 229 which is admittedly sold in India under the name BRILINTA and AXCER.
The defendant, it is pleaded, is practicing IN 229 which is now in the public domain by virtue of the expiry of IN 229.
(v) The pleas under Section 64(1) (a), (d), (e), (i), (j) and (k) are reiterated to plead that the suit patents are liable to be revoked.
(vi) It is further pleaded that the plaintiff alleged loss and harm can be easily compensated as the loss of revenue and profits are clearly calculable and determinable.
In case the plaintiff succeeds in the suit this loss can easily be compensated.
In CS(COMM) 792/2018, the main defendant here is Natco Pharma Ltd Apart from repeating most of the above contentions, the defendants in the present suit reiterate that to the best knowledge of the defendant, the patent has been refused in several countries including China, Europe and South Korea.
These details, it is pleaded, have been suppressed in the present suit.
The said defendant has also filed counter claims for revocation of Indian Patent IN 907, IN 984 and IN 674.
In the counter-claim filed to seek revocation of IN 984 some of the salient contents raised are as follows:- (i) It is pleaded that the suit patent is not novel having regard to what was publicly known or published in India or elsewhere.
Reliance is placed on Section 64(1)(e) to contend that it lacks novelty.
It is claimed that the impugned claim is not novel in view of WO 00/034283 (WO'283).
Reliance is placed on an experiment conducted by Dr.Fritz B Blatter on 27.8.2012 where it was demonstrated that the final product of example 3 of WO 283 is nothing but a crystal compound claimed in the impugned patent.
It is stated that as a result of the above disclosure the European Patent Office revoked the patent.
(ii) It is further stated that the subject matter patent is obvious in nature and does not involve any inventive step having regard to what was publicly known or published in India or anywhere else.
It is pleaded that the aforesaid claims are obvious in view of the prior art WO 283.
It is stated that WO―283 taken together with other prior art documents as well as available common general knowledge would enable a person skilled in the art to identify the polymorph claimed in the impugned patent.
(iii) It is further stated that impugned patent is not sufficiently or properly described.
(iv) It is also pleaded that the patent is not patentable under the Act.
Reliance is placed on section 3(d) read with section 64(1) (k) of the Act.
It is stated that there is no data to demonstrate therapeutic efficacy of the compound over known compounds specially TICAGRELOR which is disclosed by WO 283.
Hence, the claim is invalid in view of section 3(d) of the Patent Act.
(v) Reliance is also placed on section 64(1)(d) to contend that the said claim is not an invention within the meaning of the Act.
The impugned suit patent does not possess an inventive step and is obvious to a person skilled in the art. (vi) It is also pleaded that the plaintiff has failed to comply with section 8 of the Act.
It is stated that the plaintiff has failed to intimate the Indian Patent Office of the status of all corresponding foreign applications including details regarding grant, refusal, abandonment etc. Reliance is also placed on section 64 (1)(m) of the Act to state that the impugned patent is liable to be revoked.
It has been claimed in the counter-claim that the invention as claimed was claimed in a valid claim of earlier priority date i.e.
It is stated that the compound already claimed and granted in IN 229 has once again been claimed and granted in IN 907.
It is pleaded that the plaintiff has played a fraud on the Indian Patent Office and before this court as the correct picture has not been placed before the court.
It is pleaded that based on prior claim the claims of the impugned patent are liable to be rejected.
It is reiterated that the impugned patent does not involve any inventive step having regard to what was publicly known and used in India.
A person skilled in the art armed with the prior art and with common general knowledge would be in a position to arrive at TICAGRELOR.
It is stated that the impugned patent is not properly described.
Reliance is also placed on section 64(1)(k) read with section 3(d) of the Act.
It is stated that the specification of the plaintiff does not provide any data to demonstrate therapeutic efficacy of the compound or know compounds especially TICAGRELOR which is disclosed by IN 229.
Reliance is also placed on section 64(1)(d) and section 2(1)(j) of the Act to claim that the patent is liable to be revoked.
Reliance is also placed on section 8 read with section 64 (1)(m) of the Act.
Another counter-claim is also filed seeking revocation of Indian Patent No.272 674 substantially on the same aforenoted grounds.
The plaintiff has filed its replication/written statement to the counter- claim.
I have heard the learned counsel for the plaintiffs and the learned senior counsel/counsel for the defendants.
Learned senior counsel/counsel for the defendants have raised somewhat common contentions.
Learned senior counsel for the defendants i.e. Micro Labs Ltd in CS(COMM 749/2018 has broadly raised the following contentions to plead that this court may vacate the interim orders passed by this court: (i) It has been pleaded that IN 229 discloses TICAGRELOR which patent has expired on 14072018.
It is stated that this is evident from the fact that in the US equivalent of IN229 i.e. US910, the plaintiffs have expressly made an admission that US 910 discloses and claims TICAGRELOR.
(ii) It has further been pleaded that the suit patents are a classic instance of Ever-Greening.
IN 229 expressly discloses and covers through its claims 1 and 7 TICAGRELOR.
The product TICAGRELOR, it is reiterated, has been admitted by the plaintiffs in US litigations for infringement of US 910 to be revealed in IN 229.
It is further stated that even before the Indian Patent Office while filing forms 27, the plaintiffs expressly admit that IN 229 covers and claims TICAGRELOR.
It is pleaded that Form 27 filed by the plaintiff for IN 229 is identical to Form 27 filed in respect of IN 907, IN 984 and IN 674.
Hence, it is stated that at this stage, in view of the stated admissions made by the plaintiff, this court may not grant interim injunction to protect the plaintiffs.
(iii) It has been further pleaded that the patents which correspond to IN 907 and IN 984 have been refused in various countries.
It is stated that the European Patent corresponding to IN 984 has been revoked by the European Patent Office Opposition Board, Chinese Patent corresponding to IN 907 was invalidated in October 2017.
It is pleaded that these material facts have been suppressed by the plaintiffs.
It is further pleaded that there is non- compliance of Section 8(1) & Section 8(2) of the Act since details of this revocation and such proceedings were concealed from the Indian Patent Office.
(iv) It has further been pleaded that defendant No.2 filed two separate revocation petitions before IPAB in respect of IN 907 and IN 984 in October 2015 much prior to filing of the present suit.
The revocation petitions, it is urged, are bona fide and not a counter blast to the suit.
It has been pleaded that a credible challenge to the two patents is pending prior to filing of the present suit and that itself would be a ground for this court to vacate the present interim orders passed.
(v) It is further submitted that the plaintiff has not come to court with clean hands.
The plaintiff has impleaded defendant No1 as one Mr.PKumar whereas the main defendant is Micro Labs Ltd Hence, Mr.PKumar was added only to mask the target Micro Labs Ltd Learned senior counsel for the defendants Natco Pharma Ltd in CS(COMM) 792/2018 has broadly urged as follows to plead that this court may vacate the interim orders passed:- (i) It has been strongly pleaded that the plaintiffs have deliberately and mischievously impleaded Mr. T Rao as defendant No. 1.
The suit and the cause of action is actually against defendant No. 2 which is Natco Pharma Ltd The plaintiffs have deliberately and mischievously filed the memo of parties in this manner impleading defendant No. 1 who has no role to play in the present litigation to mislead the defendant and the court.
(ii) He submits that IN 229 discloses TICAGRELOR which is prior claimed.
Reliance is also placed on admissions made by the plaintiff while filing Form 27 which as filed for IN 907 are the same as the Form 27 filed for IN Reliance is also placed on similar admissions made by the plaintiff in USA for patent term extension.
It is further pleaded that this is a case of re- patenting or re-claiming.
Hence, it is pleaded that the said patent is liable to be revoked under Section 13(1)(b) read with Section 64(1)(a) of the Act.
(iii) It has been strongly reiterated that TICAGRELOR is very much disclosed in IN 229.
Working statements of the two patents, namely, IN 229 and IN 907 are identical.
The drug which has been marketed by the plaintiffs BRILINTA and AXCER is TICAGRELOR only.
TICAGRELOR forms an integral part of IN 229 which patent has expired.
(iv) It has been further stressed that other countries have revoked the patents of the plaintiffs which is equivalent to IN 907.
European patent equivalent to IN 984 was revoked, the Korean patent was also revoked.
It is stated that all these facts have been suppressed by the plaintiff before the India Patent Office and before this court.
Hence, it is pleaded that the patents of the plaintiffs are liable to be revoked on account of suppression of facts and this court should on this ground alone vacate the interim orders.
(v) It has also been strongly urged that the drug in question is being sold by the plaintiffs at Rs50 per tablet whereas the defendants propose to sell the same at Rs.20 each.
It is stated that in view of this fact the interim order passed will cause grave and irreparable loss and injury and hence the interim order be vacated by this court.
Learned counsel appearing in CS(COMM) 1023/2018 has reiterated the above contentions to plead that this court may vacate the interim orders passed.
He broadly pleads as follows: (i) He submits that the defendant is using IN 229 which is an expired patent.
It is pleaded that the plaintiffs admit that TICAGRELOR is covered by IN 229.
It is further stated that the plaintiff claims that TICAGRELOR is covered but not disclosed by IN 229.
It is pleaded that such a contention was completely rejected by the Supreme Court in its judgment in the case of Novartis AG.
It is hence pleaded that the contentions of the plaintiff cannot be accepted.
(ii) It is reiterated that IN 229 is admittedly a valid prior art for IN 984 and IN 674.
To support this contention, it is stated that IN 229 was published on 04021999 prior to the priority date of IN 984 (02.02.2000) and IN 674 (21.08.2006).
Clearly, it is pleaded that these two patents are in any case invalid.
(iii) It is further stated that the suit patent IN 907 has been revoked in China.
IN 984 has been revoked in China, Europe and South Korea.
Hence, it is pleaded that the suit patent is clearly vulnerable to challenge in these proceedings.
(iv) It is further stated that it is the admission of the plaintiffs that TICAGRELOR is structurally closest to the compound of example 68 of IN It is hence stated that being a derivative of a known substance, TICAGRELOR is squarely hit by Section 3(d) of the Indian Patents Act.
It is pleaded that there is not a whisper in the plaint claiming enhanced therapeutic efficacy for IN 907 i.e. the suit patent.
Reliance is again placed on the judgment of the Supreme Court in Novartis AG.
Learned counsel for the plaintiffs has however rebutted the aforesaid contentions of the defendants and pleaded that the interim orders passed be confirmed by this court.
He has pleaded as follows:- (i) On the plea of the defendants on anticipation i.e. section 13(1)(a) of the Act it is stated that the genus patent (IN 229) was published on 2nd February 1999 i.e. after the priority date of the species patent (IN 907) (4.12.1998).
Therefore, it is stated that the genus patent cannot constitute a prior art document for evaluating the novelty of the species patent.
Hence, it is stated that the plea of anticipation raised by the defendant is not applicable to the present case.
It is further stated that there is no specific or enabling disclosure of TICAGRELOR in the genus patent.
Genus patent only discloses (15 x 1020) compounds one of which was later discovered to be TICAGRELOR.
A person of ordinary skill in the art would not have been able to identify or isolate TICAGRELOR based on the teaching of the genus patent.
It is further pleaded that that the analysis undertaken by the defendant to show that TICAGRELOR can be derived from general Markush formula in the genus patent is untenable and is a case of hind sight bias i.e. cherry picking of substituents based on ex post facto knowledge of the final molecule to be obtained.
(ii) On the contention of the defendants of prior claiming i.e. section 13(1)(b) of the Act, it is stated that the same requires a specific individualized claim.
A broad claim which may cover TICAGRELOR among millions of other compounds is insufficient for the purpose of prior claiming.
It is reiterated that there is no claim in the genus patent which specifically claims TICAGRELOR.
Hence, it is stated that the plea of Prior Claiming of the defendant is not applicable.
(iii) On the applicability of section 3(d) of the Patent Act i.e. Ever- greening it is pleaded that the defendants have not been able to point out any known substance from the genus patent of which TICAGRELOR could be considered a new form/derivative.
Merely because examples 32 and 68 are structurally close to TICAGRELOR does not mean that TICAGRELOR is a new form or derivative of the former.
Mere structural similarity is not sufficient to trigger section 3(d) of the Act.
It is further stated that even otherwise TICAGRELOR has demonstrably greater therapeutic efficacy as can be seen from the affidavit of Dr.Robert Riley which is relied upon by the defendant's Dr.Reddy's Laboratory.
It is stated that this affidavit shows that TICAGRELOR has a vastly superior metabolic stability and its availability in the body would be far greater.
(iv) On the argument about non disclosure of various revocation proceedings outside India i.e. alleged non-compliance of Section 8 of the Act it is stated that equivalent of IN 907 was revoked in China but an appeal has been filed which implies an automatic stay of the operation of the revocation order.
It is further stated that 57 countries have granted patent for the same.
Regarding IN 984 it is accepted that in Europe and China the patent was revoked.
However, as an appeal has been filed and there is an automatic stay in operation.
It is reiterated that the patent has been granted in 55 countries.
Regarding the patent IN 674 it is stated that there is no revocation order passed and the patent is subsisting in 60 countries, It is stated that there is substantial compliance by the plaintiff of the statutory provisions and there is no mala fide suppression and hence section 8 of the Patent Act would have no application.
(v) Regarding the reliance of the defendants on the alleged admissions made by the plaintiff in the US Patent Term extension applications and in form 27 filed by the plaintiff in India, it is stated that form 27 only states that the genus patent has worked through TICAGRELOR.
It is stated that multiple patents can cover a single product.
It is further stated that the genus patent discloses an entire class of compounds and thus does not pertain to a commercialized substance.
It is the only after the act of isolation of TICAGRELOR through species patent that the plaintiff has been able to state that the genus patent is being worked or commercialized through Brilinta.
Regarding the litigation filed in USA and the alleged admission in the proceedings, it is stated that the plaintiff's action is consistent with the US Laws in the said proceedings.
(vi) It has been reiterated that the plaintiffs are servicing around 6 lac patients a year and not 72,000/- as claimed by the defendants.
Hence, it is prayed that the interim order passed by this court may continue as plaintiff has a strong prima facie case.
It is stated that the Supreme Court in the said case has stated that coverage (for the purpose of infringement) will not be granted by the court unless a specific disclosure has been made in the patent.
This does not mean that disclosure can be deemed to the extent of coverage asserted.
It is stated that in the said case there had been an actual disclosure of Imatinib Mesylate in the Zimmermann patent.
[I] Is TICAGRELOR disclosed and covered in the now expired patent IN229 One of the main disputes relates to the contention of the defendants that IN 229 covers/discloses TICAGRELOR and that the suit patents cannot be said to be an invention.
It is stated that compounds as claimed in the suit patents are known and anticipated in the light of IN 229.
The plaintiff claims that TICAGRELOR is not disclosed in IN 229 and that TICAGRELOR is an invention and is patentable.
To determine the dispute, I may look at some of the relevant statutory provisions.
Reference may be had to Section 2(j), 2(ja), 2(m) and Section 3(a), (c) and (d) of the Patent Act.
The Supreme Court held as follows:- The defendants have denied the said contention of the plaintiffs.
The defendants submit that TICAGRELOR can be achieved from substitution and preferences listed in IN 229.
They also rely upon various admissions to this effect allegedly made by the plaintiffs while filing statutory details in India and abroad and also while pursuing litigation abroad to support their case.
Dr. Reddy's Laboratories Ltd raises a plea that TICAGRELOR is covered and disclosed in the claims of IN 229 which are elaborated as follows:- Claim 4 - R2 is a butyl or cyclopropyl optionally substituted by a phenyl, the phenyl group itself being substituted by one or more halogen, C3-8-alkyl, phenoxy or phenyl groups The defendant Micro Labs Ltd states that IN 229 specifically discloses and covers through claim 1 and claim 7 the product TICAGRELOR.
The defendant NATCO Ltd states that claims 2-7 of IN 229 leads to TICAGRELOR.
It is stated that claims 2 to 7 specifically claim certain compounds and TICAGRELOR can be derived from the substitution as suggested in the claim.
IN 229 claims ―A Triazolo (4, 5-0) Pyrimidine compound of formula (I)‖ IN 907 it is stated claims the same product.
It is manifest from the above submission that there are two rival stands available on record.
The stand of the defendants is that there is similarity of structure that exists between the prior patent IN 229 and the subsequent patents.
The claim of the defendant stated above i.e. that IN 229 discloses TICAGRELOR would be a mixed question of law and fact.
It is only once the evidence of the experts is recorded and subjected to appropriate cross-examination, a conclusion can be reached as to whether the submissions as stated above would show as to whether the claims of the genus patent IN 229 discloses TICAGRELOR.
However, for the purpose of this application there are other facts i.e. alleged admissions said to have been made by the plaintiffs which have been heavily relied upon by the defendants to argue and submit that the plaintiffs have themselves admitted that TICAGRELOR is disclosed in IN 229.
A reference has been made by the defendants to the Statement of Working stated in Form 27 filed by the plaintiffs before the Controller of Patents.
It is stated that the plaintiffs have declared TICAGRELOR as patented invention of IN 229.
For IN 229, on 21032018, the plaintiffs filed the following Form 27 which reads as follows- Similarly, for IN 907 the following Form 27 was filed on the same date i.e. 21032018 for the same period i.e. 2017:- Similar information has been filed for IN 984 and IN 674 for the same period i.e. 2017 which read as follows:- A perusal of the above forms would show that the same and identical returns are being filed for different patents by the plaintiff i.e. for IN 229, IN 907, IN 984 and IN 674.
The above returns show that for the year 2017, a sale of BRILIANTA of 1,884,470 PACKS has been shown in the returns for each of the four noted patents.
Similarly, for drug AXCER, the same quantum, namely 1,797,194 PACKS sale have been stated under the four patents.
Some of the defendants have also filed the said Form 27 filed by the plaintiff for the previous years starting from 2014.
It is clear from a reading of the said forms that the plaintiffs are not in any manner showing separate figures for the working of the said four patents or the quantum and value of the patented products that was sold.
The same product and quantity is stated to show the working of the three suit patents and the expired patent IN 229.
Reference may also be had to another document/ alleged admissions relied upon by the defendants which relates to a litigation in US against Mylan INC to enforce US Patent 6251910 (equivalent to IN 229).
In the said proceedings filed before the United States District Court for the District of Delaware, the plaintiffs stated as follows:- Plaintiff AstraZeneca UK Limited is a company operating and existing under the laws of United Kingdom, with its principal place of business at 15 Stanhope Gate, London, United Kingdom WIY 6LN.
AstraZeneca UK Limited is the owner of the '910, '060, and '419 patents, and Defendant specifically directed its Notice Letters to AstraZeneca UK Limited.‖ Hence, in the above noted proceedings the plaintiffs have acknowledged and stated that dealing in TICAGRELOR is in breach of US patent 910 (equivalent of IN 229) also.
Similarly, the defendant-Micro Labs Ltd also relies upon the stated admissions of the plaintiffs in the Orange Book of US FDA, Estonian Supplementary Protection Certificate and Canadian Patent Office Health Register where it is stated that the plaintiffs have voluntarily listed US 910 as TICAGRELOR.
Regarding Form 27 the plaintiffs deny the above submissions of the defendant being any admission that TICAGRELOR is disclosed in IN 229.
The plaintiffs state that Form 27 only states that the genus patent (IN 229) has worked through TICAGRELOR and that this does not mean that the TICAGRELOR has been disclosed therein.
It is pleaded that multiple patents can cover a single product.
It is further pleaded in the written submissions filed that the genus patent ―IN229‖ discloses an entire class of compound.
It is only after isolation of TICAGRELOR through species patent IN 907, the plaintiffs have been able to state that the genus patent is being worked or commercialized through BRILINTA.
Regarding the proceeding in Delaware the plaintiff has taken the stand that the assertion that genus patent is also infringed in the litigation above in the US is as it is permissible in USA.
Coverage is sufficient to institute an infringement action in the US.
It has been stated that the plaintiff's action in the US are consistent with US laws.
I may look at the aforenoted judgments relied upon by learned counsel for the plaintiff.
In the said judgment the Supreme Court noted the submission of the learned senior counsel for the appellant, namely, that the scope of coverage is distinct from the scope of disclosure in a patent.
It was further contended that coverage under a patent of the Markush kind cannot lead to any presumption of disclosure, much less any enabling disclosure of all the compounds.
The plea was rejected by the Supreme Court stating as follows: xxxxx However, before leaving Hogan and proceeding further, we would like to say that in this country the law of patent, after the introduction of product patent for all kinds of substances in the patent regime, is in its infancy.
We certainly do not wish the law of patent in this country to develop on lines where there may be a vast gap between the coverage and the disclosure under the patent; where the scope of the patent is determined not on the intrinsic worth of the invention but by the artful drafting of its claims by skillful lawyers, and where patents are traded as a commodity not for production and marketing of the patented products but to search for someone who may be sued for infringement of the patent‖ Hence, the Supreme Court negated the argument that is sought to be made by learned counsel for the plaintiff that coverage in a patent might go much beyond disclosure.
The plea of the plaintiff that genus patent has worked through TICAGRELOR though TICAGRELOR is not disclosed in IN 229 cannot prima facie, at this stage, be accepted.
For the purpose of the present injunction application, it can be said that the plaintiff have prima facie failed to explain the admissions/conduct as contained in Form 27 filed as noted above and the litigation commenced in USA against Mylan INC. What is further surprising is that the plaint is strikingly silent about the said aspect of the patent IN 229 especially keeping in view the own admissions of the plaintiff whereby they have claimed that IN 229 is worked through TICAGRELOR.
The plaintiff states in the plaint that the drug regulatory approval for the drug TICAGRELOR came in May 2011 and the same was commercially launched in India in October, 2012 under the trademark BRILINTA.
It is the case of the plaintiffs in their submissions that it is only the act of isolation of TICAGRELOR through the species patent i.e.
IN 907 that the plaintiffs have been able to state that the genus patent is being worked or commercialized through Brilinta.
Hence, the stand is that prior to isolation of TICAGRELOR through species patent, there was no commercial working of IN 229.
Surprisingly, no such averment has been made in the plaint by the plaintiffs.
The only averment in the plaint about the patent IN 229 is that the same is a genus patent covering vast number of compounds and TICAGRELOR is not specifically disclosed in the genus patent though it is technically within the generic scope of numerous compounds including in Formula-I of the said application.
It is further stated that a person skilled in the art could not have recognized TICAGRELOR from the genus patent.
That is the sum and substance of the averment made by the plaintiffs in the plaint regarding the patent IN 229 and it's connect with TICAGRELOR.
None of the above facts/explanations were pleaded or stated in the plaint.
There is no averment in the plaint to claim that IN 229 (genus patent) was worked through TICAGRELOR though not disclosed in the said patent as is now sought to be pleaded in course of arguments.
There is no averment in the plaint that IN 229 does not pertain to a commercialized patent.
The plaintiffs have filed proceedings for breach of IN 229 when the drug in question was TICAGRELOR in USA.
These are important facts which have a material bearing on the issue as to whether TICAGRELOR is disclosed in IN 229 and is known and anticipated.
The plaintiffs were obliged to have revealed the full facts in the plaint.
This is especially so, keeping in view the fact that Micro Labs Ltd had already filed an application for revocation of the suit patents before IPAB in 2015 where various grounds were urged including the fact that the suit patents are disclosed and covered in IN 229.
The said petition clearly states that the compounds as disclosed in IN 907 and IN 984 are known and anticipated in light of IN 229 and could have been developed by a person skilled in the art.
There is clear omission of the plaintiff to mention these materials and important facts in the plaint.
The above facts, in my opinion, show that the claim of the plaintiff that TICAGRELOR is not disclosed in IN 229 and is not anticipated is subject to a strong challenge by the defendant.
This is so on account of the admissions which prima facie the plaintiff have not been able to explain properly.
This is also shown on account of the conduct of the plaintiff as noted above.
(II) Objections under section 3(d) of Patents Act Another plea strongly raised by the defendant including Dr.Reddy's Laboratories Ltd is that TICAGRELOR is derived from a known substance/element disclosed in IN 229.
Being a derivative of a known substance, it is pleaded that the suit patents are squarely hit by 3(d) of the Patent Act inasmuch as there is no statement claiming enhanced therapeutic efficacy over IN 229.
In fact it is stated that there is no whisper in the plaint claiming that the suit patents have enhanced therapeutic efficacy vis-à-vis IN Hence, it is pleaded that the patent is even otherwise liable to be revoked.
It is stated that mere structural similarity is not sufficient to trigger Section 3 (d) of the Act.
TICAGRELOR is not a new form or derivative of a known substance.
Hence, it is pleaded that section 3(d) of the Act has no application.
It is further stated that even if for some reason it is held that section 3(d) of the act is applicable to the present case, it has been pleaded that, TICAGRELOR has a greater therapeutic efficacy.
Reliance is placed on the affidavit of Mr.Robert Riley which has been filed by the defendant Dr. Reddy's Laboratories Ltd It is stated that as per the said affidavit, TICAGRELOR has a vastly superior metabolic establishment which has a direct bearing on the curative effect of the substance.
Hence, it is stated that TICAGRELOR falls outside the scope of Section 3(d) of the Act.
It is a matter of fact that the plaint is completely silent about any therapeutic efficacy of the suit patents vis-à-vis IN 229.
It appears that prima facie in the light of the above facts, the suit patents cannot said to be something altogether new or completely unfamiliar.
The said suit patents would have to pass the test of enhanced efficacy as provided under section 3(d) read with its explanation.
The plaintiffs had to show compliance of section 3(d) of the Patent Act.
As noted above, the plaint is completely silent about any enhancement of known therupatic efficacy for the suit patents.
However, plaintiff states that even if for some reason it is held that the said Section applies, reliance is placed on an affidavit of Dr.Robert J Riley which has been filed by the defendant-Dr. Reddy Laboratories Ltd to state that IN 907 has better therapeutic efficacy.
This belated reliance of the plaintiffs on the affidavit filed by Dr.Rober J Riley does not help the case of the plaintiff.
Relevant part of the affidavit dated 832000 reads as follows: No doubt, the affidavit does state that equivalent of IN 907 (Hardern) has some advantages over equivalent of IN 229 (Guile).
However, it categorically states that both the compounds, namely, equivalent of IN 229 and IN 907 can be used as pharmaceutical agents for ―inhibition of platelet aggregation‖.
This view re-inforces my prima facie finding above that the suit patents are not something altogether new or completely unfamiliar or unconnected to IN 229.
Coming to the enhancement of therapeutic efficacy, the affidavit of Dr.Riley states that equivalent of IN 907 shows advantage of a lower predicated dose and increased metabolic stability.
There is no explanation from the plaintiff as to how the stated advantage, namely, lower dose and increased metabolic stability would tantamount to enhancement of therapeutic efficacy over IN 229.
The belated reliance on the affidavit of Dr.Riley does not help the case of the plaintiff.
Clearly, the plaintiff have prima facie failed to show enhancement of known efficacy of the suit patents over the products and fail the test of section 3(d) of the Act.
[III] Non-compliance of Section 8 read with section 64(1)(m) of the Act Another contention of the defendants is that the plaintiffs have suppressed the pendency of the litigations in USA, South Korea and China and that plaintiffs have also suppressed that China Patent application which corresponds to IN 907 was invalidated on 17102017, European Patent which corresponds to IN 984 was revoked by EPO on 24.06.2014.
Hence, it is pleaded that the patent is liable to be invalidated under Section 8 and Section 64(1)(m) of the Patent Act.
Section 8 (1) (b) requires such applicant to also furnish an undertaking that up to the date of the grant of patent in India he will keep the Controller of Patents informed in writing ―from time to time‖ of detailed particulars as required under clause (a) in respect of such application made in a country outside India.
The corresponding rule is Rule 12 (1) of the Rules which states that the statement and undertaking to be filed in terms of Section 8 (1) of the Act will be in Form 3.
In the present case as noted above, the plaintiffs have given reasonable explanation about the proceedings abroad.
However, an appeal was filed and there is an automatic stay of the operation of the impugned order.
Similarly IN 984 was revoked by EPO and China and an appeal was filed and here there is an automatic stay of the operations.
Equivalent to IN 984 has been granted by 55 counties and equivalent to IN 674 have been granted by 60 countries.
In my opinion, in the given facts there is reasonable disclosure of the relevant facts in the case.
It cannot be said that there has been suppression of any material facts on this account which have a material bearing on grant of the injunction application by the plaintiffs to warrant vacation of the stay order.
The Division Bench of this court noted as follows:- In my opinion, there is prima facie substantial compliance of the statutory requirements of Section 8 of the Act by the plaintiffs.
The failure of the plaintiffs to mention about the proceedings in China, proceedings regarding the European Patent are not material enough to warrant vacation of the interim orders passed by this court.
[IV] Conclusion Should the court continue the interim injunction granted earlier?
If the defendant is able to show that there exist serious and substantial questions which render the patent vulnerable to its validity, an injunction may not be granted.
In view of the prima facie finding recorded by me above in Paras I and II, it is clear that the defendants have raised a strong credible challenge to the validity of the suit patent under Section 64(1)(f) read with Section 3(d) and Section 64 (1) (a), 64(1)(d), 64(1)(f) and 64 (1)(k) of the Patent Act.
In view of the aforementioned reasons, I am of the view that the plaintiffs have failed to make out a prima facie case.
The balance of convenience is also in favour of the defendant.
This is especially so as the original patent in question IN 229 has already expired on 14072018.
Further, the drugs being sold by the defendants are substantially at a lower price.
Hence, I vacate the interim order passed by this court on different dates.
The defendants will however continue to maintain correct and true accounts regarding the sale of the impugned drugs which are sold or dealt by them in any manner.
They will also file quarterly accounts in this court supported by the affidavit of one of its directors affirming the veracity of the account.
The defendant will also file account statements of sale figures of the said drug duly authenticated by the chartered accountant of the defendant on the basis of the records including tax returns.