By this order I shall dispose of this application being IA No.5495/2008 under Order XXXIX Rules 1 & 2 read with Section 151 CPC.
The facts of the case are that the plaintiff has filed a suit for permanent injunction restraining passing of, damages and delivery up etc.
Plaintiff's case The plaintiff is manufacturing and selling pharmaceutical specialities and is in the business for the past 100 years.
The plaintiff is the proprietor of the trademark „SECEF‟, a medicinal formulation containing cefisime which is sold by the plaintiff in capsule and suspension form.
The trade mark SECEF, as per the plaintiff, was adopted in the year 1998 and is a coined word and is a distinctive trade mark.
The said trade mark, according to the plaintiff, was available in many countries since late 1980s and early 1990s and in India since May 2002.
There was also a discussion in various pharmaceutical well known trade journals in the year 1988.
The plaintiff‟s application for registration of the said trade mark is pending in India under No. 1494475 in class 5 dated 9th October, 2002.
The plaintiff‟s earlier application bearing No. 814621 in class 5 was abandoned by it otherwise the trade mark was registered in 53 countries of the world.
As per the plaintiff, the trade mark SECEF has been continuously and extensively used in India since May 2002 and has registered total sale of 207 crores till date.
The plaintiff has alleged in the plaint that the trademark SECEF has earned substantial reputation and goodwill and is associated with the goods of the plaintiff and has acquired valuable common law rights.
In February, 2007 through its representative the plaintiff came across the product bearing the mark CECEF which is also a cefixime preparation meant for same indication as that of the plaintiff.
On enquiry, the plaintiff came to know that defendant No1 is using the said trade mark.
The products packaging revealed that it was being manufactured by defendant No.2.
The search report also revealed that defendant No1 had applied for registration of the trade mark under No. 1452902 in class 5.
The plaintiff thereafter sent seize and desist letter dated 25 th April, 2007.
However, due to oversight, the plaintiff dispatched the said letter only on 18th August, 2007.
The said letter was returned undelivered with the postal remark "left returned to sender".
On further investigation, the address of defendant No1 and 2 was found and notices were reissued to three addresses on 22nd September, 2007.
The plaintiff thereafter issued the reminder on 8th November, 2007 offering an amicable resolution of the matter and in exchange the defendant No1 would withdraw his trade mark application bearing No. 1452902 in class 5.
The plaintiff thereafter received a reply in November, 2007 whereby the defendant No1 informed the plaintiff that they have taken steps to withdraw their trade mark application and attached the letter addressed to the trade mark office for withdrawing the said application.
The plaintiff dispatched the said letter to the trade mark registry in the hope that it would conclude the matter and enable an amicable settlement and the defendants would cease to use the trade mark CECEF.
The plaintiff for the purpose of his satisfaction sent another letter dated 4th December, 2007 for the said clarification coupled with the final notice to the defendants on 12th February, 2008 for confirmation regarding the cease of the goods under the trademark CECEF altogether.
In spite of the various letters the defendants did not give any reply and, therefore, the present suit has been filed by the plaintiff.
The contention of the plaintiff is that the two trade marks SECEF and CECEF are visually, structurally and phenotically similar and are also prescribed for the identical indications and the use of the said trade mark CECEF by the plaintiff is unauthorized and unlicensed, therefore, the consumers, chemists and doctors are bound to be misled or deceived in believing these two products originating or approved by or connected with the plaintiff in some way even though the medicine in question is a Schedule H drug.
Lastly, it is alleged by the plaintiff that the defendants‟ adoption of the trademark CECEF is deliberate with a view to rake the business and earn illegal profits from the reputation and goodwill which is created by the plaintiff in respect of its trade mark SECEF and it is a classic case of passing off where the defendants are passing of their goods as that of the plaintiff.
The suit along with the interim application was listed on 6 th May, 2008 when this court issued summons in the suit and notices in the interim application.
An ex parte ad interim injunction was also issued in favour of the plaintiff restraining the defendants from manufacturing, selling or dealing with the product under the trade mark CECEF or any other trade mark which is deceptively similar with the trade mark of the plaintiff.
The defendants filed the written statement as well as the reply to the interim application.
Defendants' case The defendants have, interalia, raised the following defences and prayed for vacation of the ex parte ad interim injunction:- I have heard learned counsel for the parties and have gone through the pleadings and documents on record.
Now I shall deal with the first contention raised by learned counsel for the defendant that there is no resemblance or similarity between the two trade marks in question i.e. SECEF and CECEF.
Learned counsel for the plaintiff has referred to various decisions contrary to the contention raised by the learned counsel for the defendants.
The said decisions are:- One important factor in the present case is that the said marks used by the parties have been shown in English language and the defendant has used the first letter "C" in place of "S" of the plaintiff.
The rest of the mark is the same as that of the plaintiff.
It cannot be denied that if both the marks are written and read in other languages, then both the marks are identical.
Therefore, the contention of the defendant cannot be accepted that the two trade marks are dissimilar.
The second contention of the defendant is that the plaintiff‟s drug is prescribed for urinary respiratory track infection and acute otitis media whereas the defendant‟s product being an antibiotic is prescribed mostly for post operative cases and the ingredients of the two products are also different and used for different purposes of disease.
The defendant has also contended that the plaintiff‟s product is used in tablet and oral suspension form whereas the defendant‟s product is only available in injection form, therefore, there is no confusion and deception between the two products in question.
I do not accept the submission of the learned counsel for the defendant as I feel that it is more dangerous if the pharmaceuticals products bearing the same mark is used for different purposes for the same ailment or even otherwise.
I also do not accept the contention of the defendant‟s counsel that there would be no confusion if the product contain different ingredients/different salt.
In my opinion, it is more dangerous and harmful in the trade if the same trade mark is used for different ailments.
As per well settled law, the actual confusion and deception is not required in order to prove the case of passing off even if the defendant has adopted the mark innocently and the court comes to the conclusion that the two trade marks are deceptively similar, injunction under the said circumstances has to be granted.
Actual deception is not required in an action of passing off.
The argument of the defence of Schedule "H" drug has already been dealt with in various cases decided by the High Courts as well as the Apex court wherein the court has rejected the said submission many times.
The suffix "CEF" has been derived by the parties from the ingredient containing Cefixime, therefore, the mark of the plaintiff itself is a distinctive trade mark as claimed by the plaintiff and there is no visual similarity under the said circumstances.
This proposition has already been discussed in various decisions passed by Apex Court for the last more than four decades in which have clearly laid down that the rival marks of the parties have to be compared as a whole.
Therefore, it is not a valid defence by the defendant to first split the mark in question portion-wise and then give its justification for adoption and use of similar mark of the other party.
In the case of Corn Products (Supra) it was held that in deciding a question of similarity between two marks, the marks have to be considered as a whole.
Similarly, in the case of Amritdhara (supra) it was observed that the trade mark is the whole thing.
In the case of Rapidex Pharmaceuticals (supra), the mark of the plaintiff and defendant was Zavit and Evit and the objection was raised by the defendant that the suffix of the mark VIT is adopted from the generic name vitamin and is common in use by other manufacturer and traders, therefore, the mark was not a distinctive.
In another case reported in Sun Pharma Industries Ltd (supra) where the mark of the parties were Parkitane and Pacitane, the parties were using the mark in respect of the disease like Parkinson.
While comparing the mark as a whole, the court granted the injunction.
In the case reported of Smithkline Pharma‟s case (supra) where the marks in question were Alben and Aben, the mark Alben, was derived by the plaintiff from the generic name, the court granted the injunction against the defendant.
The learned counsel for the plaintiff says that the plaintiff has no objection if the defendants may use the generic name cefixime as a trade mark.
The next contention of the defendant is that there are number of other companies who are using the similar trade mark as that of the plaintiff, those are CEFF, SIMCEF, CEF, BECEF, SYCEF, CEACEF, SYCEF, SICEF and C-CEF.
The contention of the defendant has no force as the defendants have failed to produce any evidence of the actual user of the said marks referred by the defendants.
In order to take the said defence, the party has to give cogent evidence before this court as to since when these trade marks are being used and what is the goodwill and reputation of the said trade marks.
The defendant in the present case has not produced the samples of the third parties in order to show as to whether the said marks are being used and goods are available in the market or not.
The similar defence raised in various cases has been dealt by the courts from time to time in the cases of Century Traders (supra), Corn Products refining Co.
Relevant part of the decision of Corn product(supra) is reproduced hereinbelow:- A mere filing of the search report from the trademarks office does not prove as to whether the marks mentioned in search report was actually been used or not.
It is imperative on the part of the party who relies upon the marks of third party to produce cogent and clear evidence of user in order to prove the defence of common marks to the trademark on the basis of the third party user.
Hence, in the absence of valid and cogent evidence, the submission of the defendant cannot be accepted.
The next submission of the learned counsel for the defendant is that this court does not have the territorial jurisdiction to try and entertain the present suit.
The plaintiff in the present case has invoked the jurisdiction as per Para 21 of the plaint which reads as under:- Learned counsel for the plaintiff has argued that the plaintiff has invoked the jurisdiction of this court on the basis of fact that the defendant‟s product is available in New Delhi and that the plaintiff‟s sales are also effected within the territory of this court.
At the instance of the defendant, the statement of investigator of the plaintiff under Order X CPC has also been recorded on 21st January, 2009.
In the said statement recorded under Order X CPC, the investigator has made the statement that the defendant has created confusion in the market by using of the trade mark CECEF.
The plaintiff‟s and defendants products are available in Delhi through their agents.
Learned counsel for the plaintiff has further argued that the mere averment in the plaint is sufficient to invoke the jurisdiction.
In view of the settled law, it is clear that part of cause of action has arisen at Delhi and at this stage the court has to see only the averments made in the plaint.
LG Corporation & Anr. Vs Intermarket Electroplasters(P) Ltd. and Anr.; 2006 (32) PTC 429, Tata Iron & Steel Co Ltd V Mahavir Steels & Ors.; 47(1992) DLT 412).
Further since the point of territorial jurisdiction of this court is a mixed question of facts and law, therefore, prima facie, on the basis of averments in plaint, this Court has the territorial jurisdiction.
The next contention of the learned counsel for the defendant is that the defendant‟s application is prior in time, therefore, the plaintiff is not entitled for injunction in the matter.
It is a matter of fact that the plaintiff is the earlier user of the trade mark in question.
The plaintiff has produced the evidence of prior user on record, therefore, the contention of the defendant has no force.
The mere filing of the application prior in time of the plaintiff‟s application does not confer any right in favour of the defendant when the plaintiff is the actual prior user of the mark in question.
Further in reply to notice issued by the plaintiff, the defendant had agreed to withdraw the same very application as alleged.
In the case of Century Traders (supra), it was observed that in order to succeed in an application for temporary injunction the appellant had to establish user of the aforesaid mark prior in point of time than the impugned user by the respondents.
The other contention of the defendant is that there is delay on the part of the plaintiff to file the present suit.
The said contention is also totally merit-less because it is the defendant who himself has given the reply to the notice issued by the plaintiff to withdraw the application for registration of the trade mark and also issued a letter in favour of the Registrar of the Trade Marks.
As a matter of fact after issuing the notice by the plaintiff, it was the defendant who at that point of time made up its mind to withdraw the mark.
However, it appears that the defendant later on changed its mind as per the pleadings of the defendant.
It is well settled law that if the defendant had knowledge about the plaintiff‟s trademark then the subsequent user of the defendant, if any, is at its own peril and it should not be construed as bonafide user on the part of the defendant.
Therefore, the said contention has also no force in the eyes of law.
It is not in dispute that the two products are pharmaceutical products, the submission of the defendant that the two products are used with different ingredients does not amount to concealment of material fact.
The said contention has no force and the same is rejected in view of my discussion in para 21 of my order.
After considering the overall circumstances of the matter, I am of the view that prima facie it appeared that the defendants have infringed the legal rights of the plaintiff and therefore, they have no justification to use the impugned trade mark.
I am of the considered view that an ex parte ad interim injunction granted by this court on 6 th May, 2008 is to be confirmed and ordered accordingly.
List this matter before the Joint Registrar on 18th August, 2009.