The present application is filed by the plaintiff seeking an interim injunction to restrain the defendants no. 1 to 3 in any manner using the mark/expression "ALL-AROUND PROTECTION"/"ALLROUNDER" either as a trade mark, trading style or in any other manner especially in relation to toothpaste.
The accompanying plaint is filed by the plaintiff seeking a relief of permanent injunction and other connected reliefs in relation to its registered trademark "ALLROUND" or the mark/expression "ALLROUND PROTECTION".
As per the averments in the plaint for the trademark "ALLROUND" the plaintiff applied for registration on 2nd September 2005 and the registration was granted on 26th August 2008.
It is urged that the said trademark has been used by the plaintiff extensively thereafter.
The said mark is a well known mark and extensively associated with the plaintiff and its activities.
The plaintiff avers to have used the mark "Anchor ALL ROUND PROTECTION" extensively with huge publicity in international print and electronic media.
The annual sales turn-over of the plaintiff for the years 2006-12 is said to be above `300 crores.
It is further urged that the plaintiff has been extremely vigilant and zealously protecting its intellectual property rights for its registered mark "ALLROUND" and the expression „ALLROUND PROTECTION".
The defendant in that suit during pendency of the hearing of the injunction application had changed the mark and expression and accordingly this Court on 25.04.2013 disposed of the injunction application.
It is urged that sometimes in the end of May 2013 the plaintiff came across news reports that the defendants were planning to enter into the toothpaste market.
In the first week of July the plaintiff is learnt to have been shocked to know that defendants have on July 02, 2013 launched its product under the mark ORAL-B "ALL-AROUND PROTECTION".
It is urged that the said mark "ALL-AROUND PROTECTION" is a complete imitation of the plaintiff‟s registered mark "ALL ROUND" and the use of the same with respect to identical products constitutes infringement of the registered trademark of the plaintiff and passing off.
It is urged that the entire purpose is to ride piggyback upon the enormous reputation which the trade mark "ALLROUND" and mark "ALLROUND PROTECTION" of the plaintiff has earned due to extensive advertising.
On July 14, 2013 the plaintiff further learnt from an advertisement that the defendants have launched another product by the name of "ORAL-B ALL ROUNDER".
It is urged that the use of the mark "ALL ROUNDER" is also in complete violation of the plaintiff‟s rights of its registered trademark "ALLROUND".
Reference is made to certain orders passed by the United States Food & Drug Administration Department (FDA), the Department which due to death of 51 people in 2007 had banned import of toothpastes manufactured in China.
It is urged that this restriction still continues and that the toothpaste of the defendant is imported from China.
It is urged by the defendants that the present Suit is liable to be dismissed as it is structured on an inherently invalid trademark, being a completely descriptive expression incapable of having characteristics of a trademark.
The expression "ALLROUND" has invariably been used by the plaintiff in conjunction with the word „PROTECTION‟ in relation to toothpaste and is thus devoid of any distinctive character.
Being descriptive, it is not capable of distinguishing the goods of one person from those of another person.
Further, it is submitted that the expression "ALLROUND" denotes characteristics, ingredients, features and quality of the product in question and could not have been registered as a trademark in view of the embargo contained in Section 9 of the Trade Marks Act, 1999.
It is next urged that even otherwise the plaintiff is not using the expression "ALLROUND" as a trademark.
It is contended that in all the documents filed by the plaintiff including advertisements, packaging etc the prominently featured trademark is "ANCHOR" and "ANCHOR" alone.
The plaintiff has always promoted and projected ANCHOR as its primary mark.
It is submitted that the defendants have been advised to file a rectification petition.
It is further submitted that a rectification petition has already been filed on such or similar grounds by Colgate Palmolive Company which is pending.
It is urged that the words used by the plaintiff are common to the trade apart from being non-distinctive in character.
It is also stated that words similar to "ALL ROUND PROTECTION" are being used in most of the toothpaste brands in different variants.
It is further stated that the defendants are a subsidiary of The Procter & Gamble Company.
The said (P & G) Company markets oral care products under the multi-billion brands of Crest© and Oral-B©.
It is further claimed that Oral-B© was the first toothbrush to go to the moon as it was on board Apollo 11 mission for the first moon landing.
It is averred that Crest and Oral-B are one billion dollar brands each being recognized globally for their quality and innovation.
It is further averred that defendants first launched ORAL-B product in India in 1996.
Ever since the said launch in 1996 the mark ORAL-B has been used extensively and continuously by the defendants.
The defendants have launched their ORAL-B toothpaste in June/July 2013 and that the defendant No3 has incurred substantial promotional and advertising expenditure in respect of ORAL-B products.
It is further urged that the defendant has made false submissions inasmuch as the ban of import of toothpaste in USA, relating to toothpaste containing Diethylene Glycol (DEG), which did not cover the product of the defendant.
Based on the above, it is urged that the present application is liable to be dismissed.
I have heard learned counsel for the parties extensively on hearings spread over several dates.
Learned senior counsel appearing for the defendant has strongly opposed the present injunction application.
He submits that the plaintiff is the registered proprietor of the mark "ALLROUND".
He submits that the mark "ALLROUNDER" as used by the defendant is a secondary mark used in conjunction with the primary mark ORAL-B.
Further their mark "ALL - AROUND PROTECTION" is also used in relation to their product ORAL-B Pro Health.
Hence, it is urged that there is no infringement of the trademark of the plaintiff.
It is further urged that though the registered mark of the plaintiff is "ALLROUND", the plaintiff has never used the standalone mark "ALLROUND" but has instead always used the expression "ALLROUND PROTECTION".
Hence, it is urged that the plaintiff is disentitled to claim exclusive rights or any equitable relief in respect of the standalone mark "ALLROUND".
It is further urged that as the plaintiff is using the mark "ALL ROUND PROTECTION" and the said expression is not a registered mark, hence no action for infringement of the said mark would be maintainable.
It is urged that no relief can be granted to the plaintiff inasmuch as the expression "ALLROUND PROTECTION" is inherently descriptive inasmuch as the same is used in a descriptive manner to describe the quality and characteristics of its goods, namely, the tooth paste.
Reliance is placed on Section 30(2) (a) of the Trade Marks Act which states that registered trademark is not infringed where it is used in relation to goods and services to indicate kind, quality and other characteristics of the goods.
It is strongly urged that use of descriptive words in whatsoever manner does not amount to infringement.
A common descriptive mark can only be protected if it has acquired secondary meaning by virtue of substantial use, which in the present case the plaintiff has failed to establish.
It is further stated that no case of passing off is made out as the defendant‟s mark "ALL ROUNDER" and the expression "ALL-AROUND PROTECTION" are not deceptively similar to the plaintiff‟s registered mark "ALLROUND".
Learned senior counsel appearing for the plaintiff has strongly refuted the submissions of the learned counsel for the defendant.
It is submitted that a mark is descriptive if it describes the intended purpose, function or use of the goods.
It is urged that the mark "ALLROUND" and "ALLROUND PROTECTION" are not descriptive and even though they are common in linguistic use they do not describe the intended purpose, quality and nature of goods.
The mere fact that the word is a dictionary word does not mean that the mark is descriptive.
It is further urged that defendants have themselves applied for and got their mark registered in the United States.
The mark "ALL-AROUND PROTECTION" has been registered by the defendant in the United States.
They have also applied for registration in India of the mark "ALLROUNDER".
It is urged that when the defendants have themselves applied and got registration of the trademark "ALL- AROUND", they cannot now claim and it does not lie in their mouth to claim that the mark is a generic expression or descriptive.
It is further alleged that even a prominent part of the mark deserves protection.
It is further urged that in order to seek protection for a mark it is not necessary that the mark has to be the main mark.
It is further urged that the plaintiff is the prior adopter of the registered mark "ALLROUND" and the mark "ALLROUND" alongwith the word "PROTECTION" is in continuous use since 2005 whereas defendant is a new player having allegedly launched its product in July 2013.
It is urged that in fact when the present suit was filed, the product had yet to be actually launched or had just been launched.
I will first deal with the submission of the defendant, namely, that the mark of the plaintiff is descriptive.
Reliance is placed on Section 30(2) (a) read with Section 35 of the Trade Marks Act to claim that a registered trademark is not infringed with the use of the mark in relation to goods which indicate the kind and quality or other characteristics of the goods.
It has been urged that the plaintiff has procured the registration on false information and that the defendants have already been advised to seek rectification of the alleged trademark.
The defendants have not denied that they have moved an application for registration of their mark "ALLROUNDER".
They have also not denied that they have obtained registration of the mark "ALL-AROUND PROTECTION" in the United States.
They have, however, urged that the term "ALLROUNDER" is a product neutral expression.
Further regarding registration of the mark in United States it is urged that the said registration in United States is inconsequential to the present proceedings as the Trade Marks Act applies only to the jurisdiction of India.
It is further urged that a descriptive word will not change its character merely by an act of the defendant.
What is the effect of these background facts i.e. that the defendants have themselves applied for registration of the mark "ALLROUNDER" and have also obtained registration of the mark "ALL-AROUND PROTECTION" in USA.
In my view it is not permissible for the defendant to approbate and reprobate.
The State (National Capital Territory of Delhi), 89 (2001) DLT 511.
That was a case which pertained to a suit for injunction filed by the plaintiff for its registered trademark DIMMERSTAT.
The defendant in that case is said to have adopted the trademark DIMMER DOT.
The defendants in that case took the stand in the said matter that the word DIMMER being a generic word is incapable of serving a trademark function.
It was urged that the said word signifies an auto variable transformer and no trader could monopolize its use.
The defendants in that case had got their trademark DIMMER DOT registered in Australia.
In those facts this Court did not accept the contention of the defendant in that case that DIMMER is a generic expression.
In paragraph 16 this Court held as follows:- In view of the said legal position I do not wish to go into the submission of the defendant as to whether the word "ALLROUND" or "ALLROUND PROTECTION" is a generic word.
It clearly does not lie for the defendant to raise the said submission in the given facts.
Their submission about the mark being generic has to be rejected.
I may now deal with the connected argument of the defendants namely that the defendants are using the mark to describe the quality of the product and not as a trade mark.
In that case the respondent had registration of trade mark "YO!"
The appellant was manufacturing and marketing noodles under the name and style of Maggi Cuppa Mania in two flavours Masala Yo!
It was argued by the appellant in that case that no infringement is made out by the use of Yo!
in as much as the appellant claimed that it was using the distinguishing trade mark "Maggi" along with it.
The Court held that as the manner in which the mark Yo!
and Chilly Chow Yo!, it was not used to indicate connection between the appellant‟s product.
The said expression described the characteristics of the goods in the sense that they referred to the flavor of the noodles.
It was on those grounds that the Court vacated the injunction in favour of the respondent in that case.
However, in the present case a perusal of the impugned trade mark and the packaging of the defendants would show that the mark "ALL- AROUND PROTECTION" is being used as a standalone mark and not to describe any quality of the product.
The qualities of the product are described separately on the packaging.
It cannot be said that the mark "ALLROUND PROTECTION" as used by the defendant is not being used as trade mark but as descriptive of the qualities of the product.
The appellant therein was also using the word "LOW ABSORB" though it was not a registered trade mark.
Defendant therein was using the trade mark "Sundrop" with the expression "WITH LOW ABSORB TECHNOLOGY".
Hence, the issue was as to whether an action of passing off would be maintainable against the defendant for use of the mark LOW ABSORB and for infringement of the mark LOSORB and LO-SORB.
The Court came to the conclusion that the mark LOW ABSORB only describes the characteristics of the product i.e. edible oil and ordinarily and normally incapable of being distinctive.
Hence, interim injunction as prayed for on the ground of passing off was rejected.
Injunction for infringement action for LOSORB and LO-SORB was also rejected as prima facie the registration of the plaintiff‟s mark in that case was invalid and no action for infringement would lie.
However, in the facts of the present case, I have already held that on account of the fact that the defendants themselves have applied for registration of the trade mark "ALLROUNDER" and have also got registration of the trade mark "ALL-AROUND PROTECTION", it would not lie for them to claim the said mark to be descriptive.
The next contention of the defendant is that the plaintiff has not used the registered mark "ALLROUND" but has been using the mark "ALLROUND PROTECTION" and hence the plaintiff is not entitled to equitable relief of injunction.
It was argued that on account of disuse of the mark "ALLROUND" plaintiff cannot seek injunction.
Plaintiff has as per the defendants been using the mark "ALLROUND PROTECTION".
To claim that because of this there is non-use of the registered trade mark "ALLROUND" in this background is an argument only playing with words.
The only sale perhaps was stated to be of the period 1977 to 1979.
Hence, there was non-user of the trademark and this Court held that where there is non-user for a long period of time then mere registration of the mark would not entitle the plaintiff to an injunction.
In that case the appellant had a registered trade mark "RUSTON".
The High Court in that case, found there to be deceptive resemblance between the words RUSTON and the mark RUSTAM and hence the use of the bare word RUSTAM constituted infringement of the appellant‟s trade mark RUSTON.
However as the respondent was using the mark RUSTAM INDIA, the High Court held that mark was ceased to be deceptively similar to the appellant‟s trade mark.
The Supreme Court negated the contention stating that the fact that the word INDIA is added to the respondent‟s trade mark RUSTAM is of no consequence and the appellant is entitled to succeed in its action for infringement of its trade mark.
The trial court made observations that in the business name the plaintiff sometimes used QSS as prefix to "Muktajivan Colour Lab".
The prefix QSS was a short form of Quick Service Station and was merely an adjective prefixed to the name.
The Supreme Court held that it is the word "Muktajivan" which makes distinctive the business name of the plaintiff.
Hence the Court was of the view that a clear case for grant of ad interim injunction as prayed for by the plaintiff, was made out.
Hence, there is no merit in the submission of the defendant.
Merely because plaintiff has used the mark "ALLROUND PROTECTION" the mark "ALLROUND" cannot be said to have fallen in disuse.
Even otherwise the plaintiff has contended that it has used the mark "ALL ROUND" per se also.
It will be for the plaintiff to prove this at the trial.
Now I come to the issue as to whether the use of the mark "ALL-AROUND" or "ALLROUNDER" by the defendant is an infringement of the registered trademark of the plaintiff "ALLROUND".
What is to be seen is as to whether the trademark "ALL-AROUND PROTECTION" or "ALLROUNDER" can be said to be identical with or deceptively similar to the trademark of the plaintiff.
Both the plaintiff and defendant are using the said mark on the same good i.e. tooth paste.
The broad and essential features of the three marks are identical.
There are various similarities in the essential features of the said marks which are likely to deceive and confuse a consumer.
The essential feature of the registered trade mark of the plaintiff is "ALLROUND".
This feature is also the essential feature of the impugned marks.
The balance of convenience is also in favour of the plaintiff.
When the present suit was filed, the defendants had just started marketing of their toothpaste with the impugned trademarks.
In case the defendants are not restrained, irreparable injury is likely to be caused.
In view of the above the defendants are restrained by an interim injunction from using the impugned trademark "ALL-AROUND PROTECTION"/ "ALLROUNDER" or any other mark deceptively similar to the plaintiff‟s trademark "ALLROUND", till disposal of the accompanying suit.
The order shall operate after four weeks from today, to enable the defendants to take appropriate steps to comply with the same.
CS(OS) 1431/2013 List before the Joint Registrar on 07.07.2014, for further proceedings.