VIPIN SANGHI, J On 21032016, IA No. 3733/2016 filed by the defendant No. 1 under Order 39 Rule 4 Code of Civil Procedure (hereinafter "CPC") was listed.
Notice was accepted by learned counsel for the plaintiff and the parties addressed their submissions on the aforesaid two applications - the first being IA No.6690/2015 preferred by the plaintiff under Order 39 Rule 1 & 2 CPC to seek interim injunction, and the latter i.e. IA No. 3733/2016 preferred by the defendant No. 1 - being an application under Order 39 Rule 4 CPC to seek the vacation of the ex-parte ad-interim order of injunction dated 06042015 passed by this court in the plaintiffs aforesaid application.
Since the same could not be pronounced earlier, the matter was listed for recapitulation of the submissions on 22122016.
The learned senior counsels were heard and orders reserved on the same day.
In IA No. 6690/2015, this Court passed an ex parte order of injunction on 06042015 in favour of the plaintiff, thereby directing that "till further orders the defendants by themselves, their partners, proprietors, directors, agents, servants, licensees, franchisees, representatives and employees or any one claiming under them are restrained from in any manner directly or indirectly using the mark ZIFFI/ZIFFICOM or any other confusingly/deceptively similar mark in respect of their business/services".
The ex-parte ad-interim order of injunction was stayed by the Division Bench in the appeal preferred by the defendants, being FAO (OS) No225/2015 on 24042015.
The said appeal was disposed of by the Division Bench on 01032016, directing the appellants/defendants to file an application under Order 39 Rule 4 CPC seeking vacation of the interim injunction granted on 06042015.
The Division Bench directed that the status quo, namely, the stay of the operation of the order dated 06042015 shall continue till the first hearing before this court.
The Division Bench observed: The aforesaid application under Order 39 Rule 4 has been filed in pursuance of the direction of the Division Bench, as aforesaid, made on 01032016.
Plaintiff's submissions: The case of the plaintiff, insofar as it is relevant, is as follows.
The plaintiff is a large pharmaceutical company which has introduced several medical formulations and drugs in the market under its brands.
In July 2001, the plaintiff launched its medical products and formulations under an invented brand ZIFI containing Cefixime as an active drug - an antibiotic used to treat several diseases.
Over 15 years since its launch, the plaintiff's mark ZIFI has been used in relation to several adult medicinal drugs/ products, such as: The plaintiff has further launched new medicines under the ZIFI brand such as - ZIFI-CV, ZIFI-LBX, ZIFI-O, ZIFI-OZ, ZIFI-AZ and ZIFI TURBO.
The plaintiff has also spread its product line to various medicines for treatment of typhoid, bronchitis, dental products and medicines, fever and infection management, anti-infective range for adults and pediatrics and also fever and infection management.
The plaintiff claims to be the proprietor of a family of ZIFI prefixed trademarks and it owns and uses its ZIFI family of trademarks in several countries, including in India.
The plaintiffs mark ZIFI by itself, as well as a prominent component of other marks, have been got registered with the Registrar of Trademarks.
The details of the registrations disclosed in the plaint are as follows: The aforesaid registrations have been duly renewed, are valid, and are subsisting.
The plaintiff has disclosed that it has made an application for registration of ZIFI BITES and ZIFICOIN, which are pending registration, and details thereof as under: The mark ZIFI is registered by the plaintiff in Malaysia and Philippines as well.
The plaintiff states that the trademark ZIFI and ZIFI family of trademarks-being used for over 14 years by the plaintiff, is the principal identifier of its ZIFI range of antibiotic products and medicines.
The plaintiff has detailed in the plaint itself the year wise sales of its products under the trademark ZIFI and ZIFI family of trademarks, product wise, between 2001 and 2014.
The total year wise sales have been disclosed by the plaintiff on the basis of the plaintiffs audited accounts under the trademark ZIFI and ZIFI family of trademark to be as follows: The year wise promotional expenses incurred by the plaintiff in relation to the mark ZIFI and ZIFI family of trademarks from 2001 to 2013- 14 are disclosed as follows: The Original Certificate of the Chartered Accountant of the Plaintiff's company showing sales and promotion figures of the Plaintiff's products under the mark ZIFI have been placed on record.
The plaintiff's trademark ZIFI and ZIFI family of trademark have gained popularity and featured in popular magazines and journals concerning the trade in India, such as: The plaintiff owns and maintains the websites www.fdcindia.com.
On its aforesaid website, the plaintiff had also initially provided a link to "http:zificoin" in respect of its medical formulations being sold under the trademark ZIFI and ZIFI family of trademarks.
The said websites of the plaintiff can be accessed from anywhere in the world.
The websites contains all information about the drugs manufactured and sold under the trademark ZIFI and ZIFI family of trademarks both for adults and children.
They also contain the literature with regard to the use of the medicines of the plaintiff under the said trademarks.
The plaintiff also discloses that it has vigilantly protected its mark against infringement by filing oppositions against other applicants successfully.
The plaintiff has disclosed-in relation to the defendants, that defendant No. 1 is engaged in the business of providing online services for appointment of doctors, diagnostic centres, spas and salons and other healthcare services under the trading style ZIFFI and ZIFFI.com.
Defendant No. 2 is a director of defendant No. 1 company.
The plaintiff further states that defendants were offering their online services under the trade mark DocSuggest/DocSuggest.com through their website www.docsuggest.com between February 2010 till end of September 2014.
Post the said period, the defendants started using the domain ziffi.com and also re-directed their earlier website www.docsuggest.com to the website www.ziffi.com.
The case of the plaintiff is that in September 2014 it discovered from a news article published in the Hindu-Business Line on 29.09.2014, about the user of the mark ZIFFI by the defendants through its website www.ziffi.com.
The plaintiff issued a cease and desist notice on 20.10.2014 calling upon the defendant to stop using the trademark/ name ziffi.com in connection with their services, or for any other purpose whatsoever.
The defendants sent a reply on 18112014, inter alia, claiming that the defendants mark ZIFFI and its domain name ZIFFI is structurally and visually different and distinct from the plaintiff's trademarks.
The defendant also applied for registration of ZIFFI with the Registrar of Trademarks on 17122014 claiming user since 30092014 under the various classes, namely, Class 35 and 42.
In para 36 of the plaint, the plaintiff avers as follows: Thus, the plaintiff claims infringement of its registered trademark ZIFI and ZIFI family of trademarks and its domain name zificoin.
In the plaintiffs aforesaid application, the plaintiff has sought an injunction restraining the defendants by themselves, their partners, proprietors, directors, agents, servants, licensees, franchisees, representatives and employees or any one claiming under them or authorized from, in any manner, directly or indirectly using the mark ZIFFI/ ZIFFI.COM or any other confusingly/ deceptively similar mark in respect of their business/ services so as to infringe the plaintiff's registered trademark ZIFI and ZIFI family of trademarks.
The plaintiff is also claiming an action of passing off against the defendants for passing off the defendants' services, website and business as that of the plaintiffs.
Learned counsel for the plaintiff, Ms. Shwetasree Majumder submits that the domain name "Zifficom" was neither coined, nor created by the defendants, as alleged.
In fact, the said domain name was created by a third party called Fabulous Domains on November 30, 2004 and it remained in their name until June, 2014.
According to the plaintiff, the same was put up for sale for $949 by Fabulous Domains, and the defendant No. 2 appears to have purchased it on or about June 20, 2014.
It is submitted that the defendants started their business operation with the offending domain name only from September 30, 2014.
As regards adoption of the mark 'Ziffi' by the defendants, Ms. Majumder submits that the defendants have provided no acceptable or plausible reason for the change in their trade name/domain name from DocSuggest/docsuggest.com to Zifficom.
The defendants had the option of choosing any mark/domain name, however, they deliberately chose 'Ziffi'.
The defendants claim to have adopted "Ziffi" from the term "Jiffy"-to signify their "quick" and "speedy" service, but they could have, very well, chosen another name connoting the same meaning or essence.
Ms. Majumder also submits that retaining of the letter "i" also casts a shadow of doubt on the defendants as their alleged mark reads as "Ziffi" with an "i" instead of "Ziffy" with a "y".
She states that in trademark law, a subsequent user has a higher onus to prove the honest adoption of the mark impugned, more specifically in cases of a coined/ arbitrary mark.
She places reliance upon the following decisions, wherein the Courts were not convinced with the explanations for adoption of the respective marks by the defendants: Ms. Majumder submits that the present case is essentially falling under clause (2) (b) of Section 29 of the Trade Marks Act, 1999 (hereinafter "the Act") as the goods of the plaintiff and the services of the defendants are allied and cognate.
She states that modern trademark law has transgressed from the above, and similarity in goods and services is now being viewed from an overall perspective.
To substantiate the same, she placed reliance on different instances of infringement under Section 29 of the Act.
She submitted infringement, post the repealing of the Trade and Merchandise Act, 1958 has extended to using of a registered trademark on business papers and advertising [See Section 29(6)(d)] and to the use of spoken words, forming a part of a trademark and visual representation of such words [See Section 29(9)].
She submits that the defendants' services are in respect of the common target customer base and clientele i.e. Doctors and consumers/patients availing services of Doctors, diagnostic clinics and healthcare services.
It is submitted that the promotional activities of the plaintiff extends to doctors', physicians' and diagnostic clinics by way of posters, labels, stationary etc., and the defendants are also engaged in the booking of doctors' appointments and diagnostic clinics etc.
Thus, as per the plaintiff, business of the plaintiff and the defendants are allied, cognate and related.
Reliance is placed on the discussion on related goods in McCarthy on "Trademarks and Unfair Competition".
The learned author states as follows: Ms. Majumder submits that healthcare industry, these days, is not only concerned with dispensation of medicines alone, but has outreached other areas as well.
She cites some real life examples, namely of, - "MAX' India" - which cover areas of not just dispensation/pharmacy, but surgery, health insurance, and online appointment of doctors; 'Jindal Group' - which covers, inter alia, areas of steel, petroleum, cement and institute of naturopathy; 'Mylan' - which covers manufacture and marketing of pharmaceutical products and philanthropic services as well.
She submits that pharmaceutical industry has graduated to being called life sciences, and now it's referred to as the healthcare industry.
Thus, defendants' services of online booking of doctors, diagnostics, spas, salons etc. fall under the "healthcare industry" which is inclusive of the dispensation of medicines/pharmaceutical products of the plaintiff.
In support of the submission on allied and cognate goods/services, Ms. Majumder relies upon the following cases: Ms. Majumder submits that the association between DocSuggest and 'Ziffi' is discernible only from the website of the defendants.
Thus, if a consumer were to look for the plaintiff's product on the internet, he is likely to log into the defendants' website, believing it to be that of the plaintiff.
Learned counsel for the plaintiff relies upon McCarthy on 'Trademarks and Unfair Competition, Vol. 4 to submit that the defendant is guilty of 'initial interest confusion'.
The learned author in the said work states as follows: An Analogy.
The analogy to trademark initial interest confusion is a job-seeker who misrepresents educational background on a resume, obtains an interview and at the interview explains that the inflated resume claim is a mistake or a "typo".
The misrepresentation has enabled the job-seeker to obtain a coveted interview, a clear advantage over others with the same background who honestly stated their educational achievements on their resume.
In such a situation, it is not possible to say that the misrepresentation caused no competitive damage."
[Emphasis supplied] She also relies upon the following cases in this regard: Ms. Majumder submits that even if the goods/ services are considered dissimilar, the plaintiff's case is covered under clause (4) of Section 29 of the Act.
She submits that plaintiff's mark "ZIFI" has reputation in the country, and defendants' use of the impugned mark 'ZIFFI' tantamounts to the defendant taking unfair advantage of the plaintiff's mark (as it causes source identification confusion/ initial interest confusion) and the same is detrimental to the distinctive character and/ or repute of the plaintiffs registered trade mark.
The same is detrimental to the distinctive character as it leads to dilution of the plaintiff's trade mark and would adversely impact the plaintiff's reputation on account of the substandard services of the defendant and the obvious source identification confusion diluting the reputation and goodwill of the plaintiff's trademark.
They are currently operating in the cities of Mumbai, Delhi, Bangalore, Hyderabad and Pune using the website "www.Zifficom".
It is the submission of the Defendants that presently, they are providing services to book appointments only with salons and spas in these aforementioned cities.
Thus, the submission is that there is no similarity or overlap in the business of the plaintiff and that of the defendant.
The defendants submit that they commenced their business of online booking services for appointments with doctors and diagnostic tests from about February, 2010 under the name of "docsuggest.com/docsuggest" in the city of Hyderabad, and gradually expanded to Mumbai, Delhi, Bangalore and Pune.
The defendants expanded the sphere of their business from booking doctor appointments to salons, spas and general wellness related facilities.
As a result of this, they changed their trade name from "docsuggest.com/docsuggest" to 'Zifficom/Ziffi' to avoid their target users from getting an impression that their services are only limited to fixing doctor's appointments.
The defendants submit that though the said domain name was created in the year 2004, it was not used until the defendant No.1 decided to adopt the name and mark 'Zifficom' around June, 2014.
The defendants submit that they coined the word 'Ziffi' keeping in mind the nature and the manner in which the defendant No. 1 provides business of online appointment booking services in a quick, speedy and efficient manner to the customer intending to avail its services through the website.
The term "Ziffi", according to the defendants, has been derived from the word "Jiffy" which means "very quick" or "in a fraction of a second".
The defendants state that their network has over 5500 salons & spas, and over 4000 stylists in its network as of February 2016.
They enjoy registrations of over 3,60,000 users in a span of just one year for the business of spas and salons, and have received over 1,200,000 appointment requests only through its mobile app.
The defendants claim to have spent over INR 26 Crores in promotion, advertisement, operations of www.ziffi.com since its rebranding to "Ziffi/Zifficom".
The defendants submit that pursuant to receiving the cease and desist notice sent by the plaintiff, they filed caveats in November 2014 before this Court and Courts at Bombay, Bangalore and Hyderabad which all expired in the month of February, 2015.
It is the submission of the defendants that the plaintiff waited for the caveats to expire to file the present suit in March 2015, and obtained an ex-parte interim order on 06042015.
It is the case of the defendants that the plaintiff is engaged only in the business of 'manufacturing and marketing medicinal and pharmaceutical formulations in India and abroad' and, consequently, the line of business and target customers of both parties are entirely different from each other.
They are not related, cognate, or allied businesses in any manner.
The trade channels through which the plaintiff and the defendants sell their respective products/services are entirely different.
Further, the classes of customers of the plaintiff and the defendants are entirely different, and even the mode of purchase of goods/availing services is different.
Mr. Sapra submits that allied and cognate goods must fall within the same class, and since the goods of the plaintiff and the services of the defendants are falling in different classes, no question of them being allied and cognate arises and, as a consequence, Section 29(2) of the Act is not attracted.
The defendants assert that use of the word "Ziffi/Zifficom" by the defendants would not create any confusion, as there is no reason for the customers/users who book appointments through the online platform of the defendant to associate or connect such online booking services for appointment of spas, doctors, diagnostic centres etc. to plaintiffs trademark 'ZIFI' in respect of its medicinal products.
This court in Para 19 observed: The defendants submit that their services are available only for the masses in four cities viz. Mumbai, Delhi, Bangalore and Hyderabad.
Mr. Sapar submits that the medicinal products sold under the plaintiff's trade mark 'ZIFI' are all prescription drugs, which cannot be sold over the counter to the general public without a Doctor's prescription.
He submits that the medicine "ZIFI" of the plaintiff is one out of 300 medicines that they manufacture and is used by only limited customers having diseases which are cured by the antibiotic Cefixime.
Mr. Sapra submits that since the defendants communicate with doctors, diagnostic centres, other services providers, and its users by using the name, "DocSuggest Healthcare Services Private Limited", there cannot be any confusion in the mind of doctors, diagnostic centres, or even average customers/users with an average intelligence-who avail services of the defendants under the trade name "Ziffi/Zifficom", that the defendants are in any manner associated or connected with the plaintiff.
He submits that 'ZIFI' and 'Zifficom/Ziffi' are structurally, visually and conceptually different and distinct.
The font, size, and manner in which the word "Ziffi/Zifficom" is used by the defendant is entirely different from that of the plaintiff's trademark ZIFI and its family of trademarks.
Further, the plaintiff itself has acknowledged the structural dissimilarity by filing and obtaining registrations for marks ZIFI, ZIFI 200, ZIFI 100 DT and ZIFI 50 under registration nos. 995613, 1041491, 1041490 and 1105943.
Mr. Sapra submits that the present case falls under Section 29 (4) of the Act, which defines as to when a registered trade mark is infringed in the case of dissimilar goods and services.
He submits that the ingredients of Section 29(4) are not met in the present case.
Learned counsel submits that the plaintiff has failed to disclose any reputation in India.
Further, the plaintiff has failed to establish that the adoption by the defendants of the mark in question is without due cause, and how the defendants are taking unfair advantage, or how the adoption of the mark ZIFFI/ZIFFICOM by the defendants is detrimental to the reputation of the plaintiffs.
Mr. Sapra further submits that use of the mark "ZIFFI" is not without due cause, because the defendants have from the very beginning indicated the change of its mark from DocSuggest to Ziffi.
The corporate name "DocSuggest" appears on all forms of the defendants.
They have made conscious effort to promote the change of its trade name from 'DocSuggest' to 'Ziffi'.
The word was spread by publishing a blogpost titled "DocSuggest is transforming in a Ziffi" on their website, by making a declaration-reading "Your favorite Docsuggest is now Ziffi!"
which appears on top of every page on the defendants' website.
All communications with salons, spas, doctors, diagnostic centres, and other wellness related service providers are done in the name of DocSuggest Healthcare Private Limited.
Further, all forms and applications for registration of the services provided by the defendant has "DocSuggest Healthcare Private Limited" printed on top.
The defendants, therefore, are not taking any unfair advantage of the plaintiff's mark.
Further, the plaintiff has failed to produce any document/ material on record to show that there has been any actual confusion or unfair advantage to the defendant.
He states that the only document containing around five negative comments/review about the defendants' services is not sufficient to establish erosion of reputation of plaintiff's mark.
The defendants further submit that they are prior users of the mark for services covered under Class 35 and 42 of the Schedule to the Act, and by virtue of Section 34 of the Act, the defendants cannot be held liable for infringement.
The defendants submit that the user of the plaintiff has been claimed since 2001 in respect of goods mentioned in Class 5 of the Schedule to the Act i.e. medicinal, pharma and veterinary preparations only, whereas the domain name ZIFFI.COM was created and registered by the predecessor of the defendants in November, 2004.
Learned counsel for the defendant further submits that no case of passing off has been made out by the Plaintiff.
In her rejoinder, Ms. Majumder submits that defendant's website and mobile application have certain negative reviews.
Further, hits on the site of the defendants pertain to Docsuggest, and not Ziffi.
She further submits that a defence premised on equity by the infringer is not a relevant consideration for grant or non-grant of injunction and relies upon the following cases to support her submission: Ms. Majumder submits that there is no delay in filing the suit, as the plaintiff issued a cease and desist notice to the defendants on 20.10.2014 soon after learning of the defendants use of the mark, 'Ziffi' on or about September 29, 2014.
Since the use of the infringing mark did not stop, the plaintiff filed the present suit on 26032015.
Learned counsel submits that, in any event, delay in initiation of action is not a defence, and would not be a reason to permit continued infringement by the defendants.
In this regard, the Plaintiff relies upon the following case laws: Discussion and Decision Having heard the counsels for both parties and considered their respective submissions and documents, I am of the prima facie view that the plaintiff has made out a case for grant of ad interim injunction as prayed for.
There can be no doubt, and it needs no discussion to say that the mark "Zifi" of the plaintiff and "Ziffi" of the defendant are phonetically, structurally and visually similar.
In any event, this aspect is also discussed a little later.
The prime issue in this case, therefore, is whether the goods of the plaintiff and the services of the defendants are allied/ cognate or not.
Allied/cognate goods or services, as understood from the material referred to below, are those goods/services which are not identical, but can be said to be related or similar in nature (See McCarthy on Trademarks and Unfair Competition, Fourth Edition, Vol 5).
The Shorter Oxford English Dictionary on Historical Principles Fifth Edition 2002, Vol. 1. defines the term "Allied" as "connected by nature or qualities; having affinity" and the term "Cognate" as "akin in origin, nature or quality".
Reference may also be made to New Webster's Dictionary and Thesaurus of the English Language, 1992 which defines "Allied" as "relating in subject or kind" and "Cognate" as "1. adj.
having a common ancestor or origin|| (of languages or words) having a common source or root|| (of subjects etc.) related, naturally grouped together.".
In the present case, the plaintiff is using the registered mark 'Zifi' for goods falling under Class 05 of the Schedule of the Act i.e. pertaining to pharmaceutical preparations.
On the other hand, the defendants are using the mark 'Ziffi' for booking of appointments for doctors, diagnostics, spas and salons, and have applied for registration under Class 35 and 42 of the Schedule of the Act.
It is the submission of the defendant that goods and services falling under different classes cannot be allied and cognate.
The classification of goods and services under Section 7 of the Act is not the criterion for deciding the question of similarity in goods/services.
Reliance may be placed on KC Kailasam/Ramu Vedaraman's Law on Trade Marks & Geographical Indications 1st Edition, 2003 wherein, the learned author on Page 180 has stated as under - Similarity between goods and services Now, to determine whether the defendants' services are allied and cognate to plaintiff's goods, it is essential to first discuss the law on similarity in goods/services in trademarks and its development so far.
While the Act is silent on the factors to be considered for similarity in goods/services, the Courts in India - relying upon international cases and literature, have consolidated the guiding principles and factors found relevant in ascertaining the similarity between goods/services.
They are as follows: In Para 9-075, the Learned Author has mentioned some illustrations on similar goods or services including under Para 9-078 " "Services offered by beauty salons; solarium services" similar to "business assistance with beauty preparations, sales" and "beauty preparations, perfumery, cosmetics dietetic substances" ".
20, wherein the Office for Harmonization in the Internal Market (Trade Marks and Designs) also known as the Opposition Division held the defendant's services to be similar to the plaintiff's services and goods by observing that "the goods and services of the conflicting marks could be offered together and be intended for the same public."
On the application of aforesaid principles, I am of the view that the plaintiff's goods are similar to and associated with the defendants' services.
The reasons for the same are: Section 29 of the Act sets out as to what constitutes infringement of a registered trade mark.
Similarity between the two marks is also defined as an infringement.
Infringement involving allied/cognate goods and services is covered by Section 29(2)(b), which reads as follows: Pertinently, this provision was introduced for the first time in the Act of 1999, which replaced the erstwhile Trade and Merchandise Act, 1958.
The earlier Act only provided for one instance of infringement, which today, forms part of clause (1) of Section 29.
Prior to the Act of 1999, in cases of similarity in goods and services, an action of passing off would lie.
On a difference of opinion between two learned judges, the learned Single Judge observed as follows:- "The rule deducible from the foregoing cases appears to be that the plaintiffs, whose goods have acquired a reputation in the market through a trade mark or name with which their goods have become associated, have a right to restrain the defendant from using, a trade mark or name which is identical with or similar to that of the plaintiffs, and such right extends not only to the particular goods sold by the plaintiffs, but also to cognate classes of goods, provided the cumulative effect of the similarity of the mark, of the commercial connection between the plaintiffs' goods and those of the defendant, and surrounding circumstances is such as to lead the unwary customers to mistake the defendant's goods for those of the plaintiffs."
Similarity of the two marks: The degree of similarity between the marks concerned can be assessed from their visual, structural and phonetic similarity.
Apart from the visual and phonetic similarity, factors like class of users, distinctive character of the registered trademark, imperfect recollection of the average consumer, and overall impression of the mark are considered in ascertaining similarity between two marks.
The essential feature of the plaintiff's mark is the coined/ arbitrary word mark 'Zifi'.
The only minor difference between the two marks in question is that the defendants have added an extra letter 'f' after the first use of the said letter.
The use of the second letter 'f' merely emphasizes the use of the sound that the said letter produces, when pronounced/spoken.
In the normal course, the users would not even take notice when the word "Zifi" or "Ziffi" is spoken, whether there is one, or two letters 'f' in the mark.
A consumer who comes across the plaintiffs mark at one point of time, and with the defendants mark at another point of time, is not likely to remember the minor and insignificant difference in the two marks, and it is highly likely that he may recall the mark he may have come across earlier, and associate the services of the defendant as coming from the organization of the plaintiff, or vice versa.
Confusion on part of the public The Supreme Court in Corn Products (supra), observed that "it is well known that the question whether two marks are likely to give rise to confusion or not is a question of first impression.
Kerly's (15th ed.) states in Para 9-047 that "The likelihood of confusion is to be assessed globally, taking into account all factors relevant to the marks and goods and services in issue, and this will include any reputation attaching to the earlier trade mark."
The general principles as stated by Kerly's in assessing the likelihood of confusion include a global assessment; the relevant public; degree of similarity between the marks; overall impression of the marks; distinctive character of the earlier mark; imperfect recollection; similarity of goods and services.
I am of the view that there exists a likelihood of confusion or deception of the public on the defendants' using the mark 'Ziffi'.
As discussed, the difference of an extra letter 'f' is so minuscule, that an average consumer with imperfect recollection is unlikely to remember the same and, prima facie, would likely get deceived, and confuse one in place of the other.
Only a person with an extraordinary or photographic memory would possibly pay attention to such detail, but as held in a catena of judgments, the test to be applied is of a consumer with an average and imperfect memory and recollection.
As discussed above, goods and services in question, prima facie, appear to be overlapping.
A purchaser of plaintiff's product may also end up booking an appointment with a doctor/ spa/ salon on the defendants' platform, and may see plaintiff's promotional material or find plaintiff's medicinal products at the same, or another doctor's clinic or dispensary, or get prescribed plaintiff's product under the trademark 'ZIFI' by the same or some other doctor.
This is enough to, prima facie, establish that there is an overlap and linkage in goods and services, as well as the customers of the plaintiff's product and defendants' services.
In Bajaj Electricals Limited(supra) it was alleged by the defendant that goods manufactured by the plaintiffs and the defendants are totally different and, therefore, the use of the word 'Bajaj' causes no confusion in minds of public.
The plaintiffs were manufacturing electrical goods and appliances under Class 11 of the Schedule to the Act, whereas the defendants were manufacturing utensils under Class 21 of the Schedule to the Act.
The court held in Para 8 that: "The articles manufactured by the plaintiffs and the defendants are kitchen wares and are commonly used in almost every kitchen in this country.
The mere fact that the articles manufactured by the contesting parties are different in nature is no answer to the claim that the defendants are guilty of passing off.
We entirely agree with the conclusion recorded by the learned trial Judge that there is identity of the goods, the mark and the consumer and the goods manufactured by both the plaintiffs and the defendants are sold under one shop.
Mr. Cooper complained that the electric goods manufactured by the plaintiffs and the stainless steels utensils manufactured by the defendants are not sold in one shop.
The submission is not accurate because it is common experience that kitchen ware or kitchen appliances like mixers, grinders, pressure cookers, and stainless steel utensils are sold in the same shop.
At this interim stage, we are not prepared to accept the submission of Mr. Cooper on this count and we see no reason to take different view from that of the learned single Judge on this aspect.
In our judgment, prima facie, it is clear that the defendants have intentionally and dishonestly tried to pass off their goods by use of name "Bajaj"."
The court upheld the grant of injunction on account of a similar consumer base.
As submitted by Ms. Majumder, there also exists possibility of initial interest confusion in the present matter.
An unwary purchaser who is looking for plaintiff's products on the internet is likely to land up on the website of the defendants' because of the similarity in the domain names of the plaintiff and the defendants.
A customer will not make a conscious effort of adding an extra 'f', or removing the extra 'f' while looking for the plaintiff's product.
Thus, confusion would arise the moment the customer clicks on the website of the defendant, thinking and believing it to be of the plaintiff, and vice versa.
It is immaterial, in a case of initial interest confusion, if the confusion is later removed, once the consumer visits the defendants' website.
Further, the plaintiff has been using the trademark "Zifi" since 2001, whereas the defendants started using the domain name and its mobile application under the mark 'Ziffi/Zifficom' in November 2014.
The plaintiff has demonstrated the growth of its business with its trademark "Zifi", and how its users have been expanded over the years.
By virtue of this prolonged, continuous, growing and uninterrupted use, the plaintiff's trademark has achieved goodwill and reputation amongst its users.
Moreover, the trademark 'ZIFI' adopted by the plaintiff is an arbitrary and coined word, making it an inherently distinctive trademark, the character of which has been strengthened by continuous and uninterrupted use.
The defendants contend that the goods of the plaintiff are not allied and cognate, but dissimilar to services of the defendants.
It is submitted that the case, at best, would be covered by sub section (4) of Section 29 of the Act, the ingredients of which have not been satisfied by the plaintiff.
This court is of the opinion that both - the goods of the plaintiff and services of the defendants, stem from the same healthcare sector, and are similar in nature.
It, therefore, appears that a case of infringement under Section 29(2) of the Act is made out in the present case.
But, even if the court were to presume that the goods/services in question are not allied or cognate, the defendants are still, prima facie, guilty of infringement under Section 29(4).
Section 29(4) reads as under: To establish a case under Section 29(4), the following ingredients must be present: The defendants rely upon Kamdhenu Ispat Limited (supra) in support of their submission that Section 29(4) is not attracted, wherein the court declined the relief of injunction for the same mark in relation to dissimilar goods.
In my view the said case is distinguishable from the present one, since the trade mark involved therein was "KAMADHENU", which the Court considered to be a common Indian term with widespread usage within the country, unlike the present case which involves an arbitrary and coined term 'Zifi'.
Moreover, the defendants in the case were prior users than the plaintiff.
In Dharampal Satyapal (supra), the court observed, in respect of Section 29 (4) as follows: As already observed there is similarity in the two marks, which I have already dealt with above.
The marks are undoubtedly similar - visually, phonetically as well as structurally.
The mark 'ZIFFI' of the defendants is being used as a trademark in the course of trade.
The plaintiffs mark 'ZIFI' is being used for medicinal and pharmaceutical products, where as the defendants' mark 'ZIFFI' is being used to offer services for online booking for spas, salons, doctors, diagnostic etc through a website and mobile application.
The goods and services if taken to be dissimilar, can still be said to be related.
Related goods as per McCarthy on Trademarks and Unfair Competition Vol. 5, need not be the same, or in competition with each other, but should satisfy the test of likelihood of confusion as to source, affiliation, connection or sponsorship as amongst the prospective purchasers.
As stated above, the marks in question are so similar that a consumer with an imperfect memory and recollection is likely to associate and connect the defendants' mark with that of the plaintiffs, and vice versa.
The next ingredient to consider in a case under Section 29 (4) of the Act is the reputation of the registered trademark.
At a prima facie stage, I don't find it necessary to deal with the question as to whether the plaintiff's mark is a well known trademark under the Act to establish reputation as mentioned in Section 29(4).
Single Judge in Para 39, analyzed 'reputation' under Section 29 (4) of the Act as follows: As aforementioned, the sales figures; promotional expenses; the advancement of the 'Zifi' products for adult and pediatric range of medicines; Zifi's reach to more than 300 million patients; the trademark registrations; the spread of the Zifi products and Zifi family of trademarks to countries outside India, as well as the international and national accreditations and awards received by the plaintiff, prima facie, establish that the plaintiff has built a strong reputation within the medicinal and pharmaceutical sector acquired over the past 17 years.
In Dharampal Satyal (supra) the Court, inter alia, took note of the sales figures, board hoardings, television shows sponsored by the plaintiff to determine if, prima facie, the plaintiff's registered mark had a reputation in India.
The trademark 'ZIFI' by virtue of its arbitrary and coined adoption and use for the past 17 years by the Plaintiffs has become distinctive of its products.
In Honda Motors (supra) the plaintiffs were using the mark 'HONDA' for automobiles and power equipments, and defendants use of the mark 'Honda' was restricted to pressure cookers.
The learned single Judge observed in Para 42: The Supreme Court in TV Venugopal (supra) upheld the grant of injunction against the Defendants (appellants) from using the trademark "Eenadu" for agarbathies.
The trademark "Eenadu" - which means "the land" in Tamil, Kannada and Malayalam and "today" in Telegu was being used by the Plaintiffs (respondents) for newspaper and TV channels.
The Supreme Court observed as follows: The defendants have, without due cause, taken unfair advantage of the plaintiff's registered trademark.
The defendants were using the trademark 'DocSuggest' up until September 2014 for its services of online booking.
They, in order to expand their services to spas and salons, switched to using the mark 'ZIFFI'.
The defendants have failed to furnish any cogent reasoning for adoption of an arbitrary term such as 'ZIFFI'.
The justification of the defendants that term - being a misspelling and derived from the word 'Jiffy' meaning 'quick' and 'fast', is not convincing either.
There is no explanation as to why "JIFFY" was not adopted by the defendant, much less the defendant has explained as to why it did not adopt "ZIFFY" instead of "ZIFFI".
In Simatul Chemical Industries (supra) the Court upheld the injunction granted as against the defendants from using the mark "Simatul" or any other word resembling the word "Cibatul" as comprised in the plaintiff's name and style.
The defendants explained the adoption of the mark "Simatul" as being derived from the co-promotors daughters name 'Sima' and sons name 'Atul' and also from the first two letters of the Managing Directors grandfather 'Shivdas'.
The defendants stated that the term 'Siffy' was invented by them from the first five letters of promoters of the company.
The Court rejected this argument in Para 30, and observed as follows: Similarly, in the present case, adoption of the word 'ZIFFI' as a derivative of the word 'Jiffy' by the defendants to signify the quick and speedy nature of their service appears to be devised.
There is no justification for change in spelling from "Jiffy" to "ZIFFI".
It is also pertinent to mention that the plaintiff's adoption of the term 'ZIFI' was much prior to that of the defendants, and a change in the services/goods will not make a difference in establishing honest adoption of the mark by the defendant.
The defendants are maintaining a website and a mobile application under the impugned mark and generating revenue out of the same and thereby taking unfair advantage of the registered mark of the plaintiff.
Such conduct of the defendants, and the high degree of similarity in both the marks is likely to dilute the distinctive character and reputation of the plaintiffs' trademark.
In light of the above, I am of the view that the essential ingredients of Section 29(4) have also been squarely met and, prima facie, satisfied in the present case.
I shall now deal with defendants' submission premised on Section 34 of the Act.
Section 34 serves as an exception to Section 29, if the offending mark is in continuous use prior to the first use of the registered trademark or from its date of registration.
The section reads as under: whichever is the earlier, and the Registrar shall not refuse (on such use being proved), to register the second mentioned trade mark by reason only of the registration of the first mentioned trade mark."
(emphasis supplied) The defendants allege that they are prior users of the mark 'ZIFFI' for booking of appointments of doctors, diagnostics, spas etc and that Section 34 has to be interpreted in relation to the goods or services of the defendants.
If it were so, it would permit a person to dishonestly adopt a mark which is identical with or deceptively similar to a prior registered trademark (well known or not) but being used for goods or services which are different to that of the prior trademark.
Such an interpretation would be in the teeth of Section 29 of the Act.
Priority has to be viewed in relation to the use of the mark, and not the goods or services for which the mark is used.
I, therefore, find no merit in the defendants' interpretation of Section 34 of the Act.
To address the submission of the defendants on delay in filing of the suit by the plaintiff after the expiry of the caveats filed by the defendants, I refer to the decision in the following cases: Thus, the defendants were already aware of plaintiff's business when they received a cease and desist notice from it in October, 2014.
Filing of an infringement suit after six months by the plaintiff does not amount to any significant delay, and cannot be said to be an approach to the court with unclean hands since the defendants were already put on notice of plaintiff's grievance.
The plaintiff has also made out a prima facie case of passing-off as against the defendants.
As aforementioned and discussed, plaintiff has, prima facie, inter alia been able to establish that the nature of marks, nature of goods and services, class of purchasers/ consumers are similar; there is a high degree of resemblance between the marks, and also that there exists a likelihood of confusion and association because of the similarity between the marks and goods/services.
Thus, I am of the prima facie view that the use of the mark "ZIFFI" by the defendants in respect of their services is infringing the trademark of the plaintiff "ZIFI" used in respect of its pharmaceuticals preparations and it also tantamounts to passing off its business, website and services as that of the plaintiff.
I am also convinced that the balance of convenience lies in favour of the plaintiff and not the defendants owing to their goodwill, reputation and growing business.
Further, irreparable loss and injury would be suffered by the plaintiff, if the ad-interim injunction is not granted.
For the aforesaid reasons, I allow IA No.6690/2015 and dismiss IA No.3733/2016.
The ex-parte ad-interim order of injunction passed by the learned Single Judge on 06042015 is restored and shall continue to operate till the disposal of the suit.
The defendant is also directed to place on record its sales and profit figures for the period that it has used the mark "ZIFFI" in respect of its business till date.
The same - duly certified by its Chartered Accountant, be filed within two months.
The plaintiff shall be entitled to costs in these applications quantified at Rs.1 lakh.
Any observations made in this order are only tentative and not final and shall not affect the final determination of the suit.