Advocates who appeared in this case:- For the Petitioner : Mr Sudhir Chandra, Sr Advocate with Mr Hemant Singh, Ms Mamta R Jha and Mr Manish K Mishra For the Respondent : Mr Rajiv Nayar, Sr Advocate with Mr Ashish Wad with Mr Suchinto Chatterji, Mr Chirag Dave, Mr Sameer Abhyankar, Ms Surbhi Aggarwal and Mr Sanjay Samdarshi CORAM:- HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE BADAR DURREZ AHMED HON'BLE MS. JUSTICE VEENA BIRBAL Whether Reporters of local papers may be allowed to see the judgment ?
Yes BADAR DURREZ AHMED, J This appeal is from the order dated 01.07.2009 passed by a learned Single Judge of this court in IA No.7040/2008, which was an application under Order 39 Rules 1 & 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (hereinafter referred to as ‗the CPC') in a civil suit [CS(OS) 1122/2008].
By virtue of the impugned order, the appellant (defendant) has been restrained, till the disposal of the suit, from ‗infringing' the respondent's (plaintiff's) registered trademark ―Yo!‖ per se or in conjunction with any logo/mark/letters, or otherwise trading under the mark ―Yo!‖ or any other deceptively similar mark thereto or colourable imitation thereof, whether by using the expression by itself or as part of any other mark/name in respect of goods covered by the registration obtained by the respondent.
The appellant has also been restrained from, in any manner, using the mark ―Yo!‖ per se or in conjunction with any other logo/mark/letters or any other mark deceptively similar thereto, so as to pass-off or enable or assist others to pass-off their business and products as those of the respondent.
The respondent claims to have the following registered trademarks: According to the respondent, the marks ―Yo!‖ and ―Yo!
China‖ have become distinctive of the respondent and the word ―Yo‖ has acquired a secondary meaning.
Consequently, the respondent claims exclusive right to use the marks ―Yo!‖ and ―Yo!
The respondent is primarily in the business of establishing and running Chinese food restaurants.
China‖ restaurant is said to have been setup by the respondent in May, 2003 in a Mall in Gurgaon.
The respondent now claims to have a chain of about 40 such restaurants operating under the mark ―Yo!
Apart from these restaurants, it is alleged by the respondent that there are a number of kiosks and take-away points where the repondent's products are sold under the said trademark.
According to the respondent, besides being independently registered, the trademark "Yo!'
also forms an essential feature of the trade mark, trade dress and product descriptor of the products and services offered as "Yo!
travels with the respondent in all its advertisements and expanded forms of business viz. "Yo!
It is also alleged that in the year 2005-2006, the respondent innovated its product line to offer "Yo!
on the Go", which was essentially chowmein served in take-away boxes.
Allegedly, the idea is a big hit with the consumers as they are able to have quality Chinese food (particularly chowmein i.e., ready to eat noodles) at reasonable prices.
The Respondent claims to have coined and adopted the expression "Yo!
China" in the year 2002 in order to distinguish its business, trade identity and products/services from those of others.
China" has become a brand name associated with quality "Chinese Food at Chinese Prices" and that the target market for the Respondent has been the market segment which comprises primarily of the youth, for reasons of affordability.
It is further contended that in the last financial year (2008-09) the sales of the respondent were around Rs 30 crores.
It is submitted on behalf of the respondent that the word 'Yo' (without the exclamation mark) is primarily American Slang used for calling attention and the trademark "Yo!"
(Yo with an exclamation mark) is coined and arbitrarily applied (not being descriptive in nature) by the respondent to its goods and services making it inherently distinctive.
The respondent is aggrieved by the fact that the appellant is manufacturing and marketing, inter alia, noodles (chowmein) under the name and style of ―Maggi Cuppa Mania‖ in two flavours ―Masala Yo!‖ and ―Chilly Chow Yo!‖ It is alleged that around April 2008, the appellant launched a product under the name and style of "Maggi Cuppa Mania Instant Noodles" in two flavours i.e., "Masala Yo!"
The packing of the appellant's product also displays the words "Open, Fill, Go!
", which, according to the respondent, makes the appellant's product a direct take-off on the respondent's product "Yo!
It is alleged that the concept of selling noodles in a takeaway tumbler leans heavily on the market segment comprised mainly of young people, which is a time, price and taste sensitive market and which is the prime market of the respondent for its products -- "Yo!
The respondent filed the said suit alleging that the use of the mark "Yo!"
by appellant in the same manner as the registered trade mark "Yo!"
Moreover, it was alleged that the products of the appellant resemble those of the respondent in many ways:-- (i) the appellant is using the mark "Yo!'
on the packaging of its products; (ii) the respondent's product is named "Yo!
on the Go", and the appellant adopted a similar tagline on its product i.e., "Open, Fill, Go!
According to the respondent, these facts are not mere coincidences, but, clearly establish that the appellant has infringed the mark of the respondent and is trying to pass off its products as those of the respondent.
The appellant, on the other hand, alleges that it is engaged in the business of manufacturing and selling packaged noodles, under the well known and registered trade mark MAGGI, having an annual turnover of Rs. 493 crores and 91% of the market share in respect of packaged noodles.
It is alleged that the trade mark MAGGI is extensively used in India since 1974 for culinary products.
The appellant introduced packaged instant noodles in a cup under the trade mark MAGGI in two flavours, namely "MASALA" and "CHILLY CHOW".
The appellant contended that in order to attract attention and add excitement, the flavours were accompanied with the exclamation "YO!
", which has become customary in the trade as an expression of "excitement and attention" identified with the youth.
It was submitted that the respondent had itself pleaded that "Yo" is an American slang expression and is used for "calling attention/expressing excitement.‖ The appellant claimed that ―Yo!‖ was commonly used by numerous businesses.
As examples of the usage of ―Yo!‖, the appellant has placed on record printouts from various websites of businesses all over the world, which use the said expression ―Yo‖ with or without an exclamation mark.
The said websites essentially cater to the youth and provide news etc. concerning the youth.
Then, there is the website www.yofun.net, which has a product ―Yo!Fun‖.
Similarly, there are products and services carrying the names -- ―Yo Mart‖, ―Yo la‖, ―Yo Gabba Gabba‖ etc.
Another voice solution and software development site does business under the name of ―Yo!‖ Interestingly, there is a chain of restaurants in the UK, Ireland, Middle East and Malaysia, which carries on business under the name and style -- ―Yo!
To Go‖ It was suggested by the learned counsel appearing for the appellant that ―Yo!
On the Go‖, which are allegedly used by the respondent have, in fact, been ―more than inspired‖ by ―Yo!
To Go‖ Before the learned Single Judge, the appellant sought to defend its use of the expression ―Yo!‖ in respect of its ‗Maggi Cuppa Mania' products, primarily on the ground that there can be no infringement of the respondent's registered trademarks because the appellant was not using ―Yo!‖ as a trademark at all, which is a condition precedent for constituting infringement under Section 29 of the Trademarks Act, 1999 (hereinafter referred to as the ―said Act‖).
It was also contended by the appellant that ―Yo!‖ was used merely as a flavour descriptor and, therefore, did not constitute infringement in view of the provisions of Section 30(2)(a) of the said Act.
With regard to the allegation of passing off, the appellant had contended that there was no likelihood of any confusion between the trademarks of the appellant and the respondent.
The trademark of the appellant was MAGGI and its packaging employed the distinctive red and yellow combination, which it has been doing since 1974.
The expressions ―Masala Yo!‖ and ―Chilly Chow Yo!‖ were only used as flavor descriptors and not as trademarks.
On the other hand, the trademark of the respondent was ―Yo!
China‖ and there was no question of there being any likelihood of confusion between the two trademarks, namely, ―Yo!
It was also contended by the appellant that, in any event, ―Yo‖, with or without the exclamation mark, is a common or popular expression which is used worldwide and which originated as American slang and has been used commonly not only by youngsters in their day-to-day conversation but has also been used by businesses particularly to attract the attention of the younger customers.
Consequently, it was submitted that ―Yo!‖ cannot be monopolized by the respondent.
It was also suggested that ―Yo!‖ could not have been registered in view of the provisions of Section 9(1)(a) of the said Act inasmuch as it was a mark which was incapable of distinguishing the goods or services of one person from those of another person.
In other words, the mark ―Yo!‖ was devoid of any distinctive character.
It was pointed out that the appellant had filed rectification proceedings seeking cancellation of the respondent's registration before the Intellectual Property Appellate Board on 19072008 and the same are pending.
It was also contended that ―Yo‖ and ―Yo!‖ were commonly used in the trade for the purposes of brand imaging so as to target the youth.
The general use of the expression ―Yo!‖, both in day-to-day conversation and in the trade, clearly established that there was no question of the said expression having lost his primary meaning and having acquired a secondary meaning and, therefore, the respondent could not have any exclusive claim for its use.
It was also contended that ―Yo!‖ had been registered in favour of the respondent in respect of ‗restaurants' falling under Class 42, which was essentially a service and did not relate to any goods.
On the other hand, the appellant's products were goods falling under Class 30 and were not services falling under Class 42.
It was also submitted that Section 17 of the said Act clearly stipulated that when a trademark consists of several matters, its registration would confer on the proprietor exclusive right to the use of the trademark taken as a whole.
Thus, it was submitted that while the respondent had registrations under Class 30 in respect of the mark ―Yo!
China‖, the said registrations were in respect of the whole mark ―Yo!
China‖ would, therefore, have to be taken as a whole and ―Yo!‖ cannot be considered to be a registered trademark insofar as products falling under Class 30, which include the subject noodles, are concerned.
For all these reasons, it was urged before the learned Single Judge that the application for ad interim injunction be rejected.
However, the learned Single Judge returned several prima facie findings which went against the appellant.
It appears that the learned Single Judge was quite concerned about the fact that there was no explanation forthcoming from the appellant as to why it had used the exclamation mark (!)
The learned Single Judge also found, prima facie, that ―Yo!‖ and ―Yo!
China‖ were not descriptive of the respondent's products but were arbitrary marks and that they had acquired distinctiveness through usage since 2002.
He observed that, prima facie it appeared that these marks had acquired a secondary meaning insofar as chowmein (noodles) were concerned.
A prima facie view was also taken by the learned Single Judge that the respondent's registrations were not liable to be cancelled.
Further, that ―Yo!‖ was not generic in nature and that the goods and services of the respondent and goods of the appellant were overlapping and similar, both being noodles (chowmein).
Rejecting the argument of the appellant that there was no infringement because the appellant did not use the expression ―Yo!‖ as a trademark or as a part of its trademark, the learned Single Judge held that ―Yo!‖ was used in a similar manner and that the use of the mark ―Yo!‖ by the appellant ―appears‖ to fall within Section 29(4)(b) of the said Act.
The learned Single Judge also found, prima facie, that there was no merit in the appellant's submissions that the use of ―Yo!‖ by it was not likely to lead to any confusion as it was used in conjunction with the words ―Masala‖ and ―Chilly Chow‖ and the trademark ―Maggi‖.
The learned Single Judge observed that ―Yo!‖ was distinctive of the goods and services of the respondents and as such there was likelihood of confusion that the appellant's products were connected with those of the respondents.
The impugned order is assailed before us by the appellant on all the grounds urged before the learned Single Judge but, principally, on the ground that the learned Single Judge failed to appreciate that an action for infringement under section 29(1) of the said Act could only be brought where the defendant uses a mark ―as a trade mark‖.
According to the learned counsel for the appellant, it is a condition precedent under Section 29(1) that, in order to constitute infringement, the mark complained of must be "used as a trade mark" i.e., in a manner "indicative of trade origin" as per the definition of trade mark under Section 2(i)(zb).
It was submitted that the whole law of Trade Marks -- whether 'statutory law' relating to infringement or 'common law' relating to passing off -- is concerned with deception and confusion with regard to trade origin and the use of marks indicating the same.
The trade origin of the appellant's packaged noodles is MAGGI which is boldly written on the packaging.
It was contended that the impugned judgment has created a monopoly in the commonly used exclamation "Yo!"
Another ground urged before us concerned the scope of the right conferred upon registration of a trademark.
It was submitted that the right conferred under Section 28 is infringed under Section 29 only if the impugned trade mark is used for ―same or similar‖ goods or services that the Plaintiff's trade mark is registered for.
Hence, a registered trade mark for services is infringed only when used for those services.
Otherwise, there was no need for the legislature to add classes 35 to 42 (SERVICES) to the Fourth Schedule of the Trade Mark Rules.
per se is not registered for noodles which falls in class 30 and that the learned Single Judge ignored this distinction.
China" in class 30 is concerned, the same does not give an exclusive right of use to a part thereof, namely "Yo!
", on account of the prohibition laid down by Section 17 of the Act.
Then it was urged before us by the learned counsel for the appellant that the learned Single Judge erred in holding that the provisions of section 29(4) and (5) applied inasmuch as this was not even a case pleaded in the plaint.
The suit is based on the pleadings that the goods of the appellant and the respondent are the same/similar.
A reference was made to paragraph No.24 of the plaint:- It was further submitted that even otherwise, Section 29(4) did not apply as there was no trade mark usage of "Yo!"
and that any other interpretation would render Section 29(1) redundant, which, in turn, would be against the permitted rules of interpretation.
It was contended that what would not amount to infringement for "identical goods", cannot amount to infringement for "different goods" and that the test of infringement applicable to "different goods" cannot be wider than the test of infringement for "identical/similar goods".
is a popular exclamation commonly used by the trade and is a generic expression.
Consequently, it cannot be considered as a distinctive or a well known trade mark, which is a condition precedent for the applicability of Section 29(4).
CHINA" as a trade mark but, no material has been produced by the respondent to show that "Yo!
", by itself, has been used as a trade mark by the respondent or that it has acquired the status of a "well known" trade mark.
The learned counsel for the appellant also submitted that, in any event, infringement is not made out since use of "Yo!"
by the appellant in conjunction with ―masala‖ and ―chilly chow‖ cannot lead to any confusion or deception inasmuch as the appellant's product is well distinguished by the trade mark MAGGI and its packaging is entirely different and distinct from that employed by the respondent.
It was contended that the test of deceptive similarity for the purposes of an infringement action and a passing off action is the same where the trade marks are not identical.
The learned counsel contended that the Learned Single Judge disregarded this test of deceptive similarity.
He drew our attention to the appellant's trade mark and packagings and those employed by the respondent to submit that there is no similarity, what to speak of deceptive similarity, between them.
[Appellant's product] [Respondent's product] Continuing on this theme, the learned counsel submitted that, as there is no similarity whatsoever between the competing trademarks and the packaging, the question of passing off also would not arise.
The appellant's packaged noodles are well distinguished by the well known trade mark MAGGI and its distinctive packaging.
Furthermore, the appellant has a 91% market share and Rs. 493 crores annual turnover as compared to respondent's total turnover of Rs. 21 crores.
Thus, the question of piggy- backing or trading upon the goodwill of the respondent by the appellant defies all logic.
Lastly, it was contended on behalf of the appellant that the reliance placed by the learned Single Judge on Indian Shaving Products Ltd (supra) and Yahoo Inc (supra) was wholly misplaced inasmuch as both these were cases of "trade mark usage", which is not the case here.
It was therefore submitted that the impugned order be set aside.
On the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondent fully supported the impugned order and contended that no interference was called for.
First of all, it was submitted that the plea of the appellant with regard to ―Yo!‖ not being used by it as a trade mark was not tenable.
According to the learned counsel, section 29 of the said Act has various independent sub- sections under which cases of infringement may fall.
Each sub-section provides for a different situation and each is independent of the other.
It was submitted that, by virtue of section 29(4), protection is provided to a registered trade mark even if the impugned mark is used for goods and services which are not similar to the goods and services in respect of which the trade mark is registered.
It was further submitted that section 29(4) does not require that the impugned mark has to be used as a trademark.
In this context, the learned counsel took the plea that the respondent's mark "Yo!"
is registered in Class 42 (Restaurant) and the appellant, by using the identical mark "Yo!"
in the course of its trade, has made itself liable for an action of infringement under section 29(4) of the said Act, independent of the other provisions of section 29.
Secondly, it was contended that, similarly, section 29(2) (a) also does not require that, to constitute infringement, the impugned mark must be used as a trademark.
It was submitted that the appellant is using the mark "Yo!"
in the course of its trade by affixing it to the packaging of its products and advertising on all media.
by the appellant is identical to the registered trademark of the respondent.
China" is registered in class 30 and the appellant is also selling noodles which are covered under class 30, there is similarity of goods and such usage is deliberate with the intent to create confusion in the target market segment.
The plea is that, therefore, conditions of Section 29(2)(a) are satisfied and the appellant is liable for infringement.
Thirdly, it was submitted on behalf of the respondent that the appellant, by using the mark ―Yo!‖ in the course of its trade is causing serious injury by diluting the trademark of the respondent.
Fourthly, it was contended that the appellant has failed to show as to how ―Yo!‖ could be regarded as a flavour descriptor when used in conjunction with ―masala‖ and ―chilly chow‖ so as to enable the appellant to seek protection under section 30(2)(a) of the said Act.
It was submitted that the appellant has been using ―Masala‖ as a flavour descriptor on its regular packaging of "Maggi 2 minutes noodles" for many years.
As such, there is no justification for the appellant to use "Yo!".
According to the learned counsel for the respondent, from the above, it is abundantly clear that the appellant was aware of the success of respondent's "Yo!
On the Go" product and the whole idea of adding the suffix "Yo!"
to its aforesaid two flavours "Masala" and "Chilly Chow" was to give an impression of commercial connection between the two and thereby capitalize on the goodwill of the respondent's product when targeting a new market segment.
Fifthly, it was submitted that the trademark law does not make any distinction between a larger market share holder and a smaller market shareholder, thus, the plea of the appellant with regard to it having a 91% market share is of no consequence.
is used in small or big letters is immaterial as the use itself constitutes infringement.
Sixthly, with regard to the appellant's contention that ―Yo!‖ is a generic expression, it was submitted by the learned counsel for the respondent that even generic, common and descriptive words can be protected if they acquire a secondary meaning.
China" due to continuous, extensive, substantial and open use for over six years, combined with the excellence of the products and services offered by the respondent under the said trademark/ trade name and backed by extensive sales and promotional efforts have become distinctive of the respondent in the eyes of the consumers.
Lastly, it was submitted that in addition to infringing the trademark of the respondent, the appellant is also liable for passing off its products as that of the respondent inasmuch as the trademark "Yo!"
had become distinctive of the services and goods offered by the respondent and use of such mark by the appellant on its products was likely to lead to confusion and deception in the minds of consumers that the product of the appellant has some connection with the respondent's products and services.
On the strength of these submissions, it was requested that the appeal be dismissed.
In this appeal, on the basis of the submissions made by the counsel, the following points need to be determined:- Point 1: The appellant has used the expression ―Yo‖ in conjunction with ―Masala‖ and ―Chilly Chow‖ which describe the two flavours of the appellant's product Maggi Cuppa Mania.
It has not used the said expression ―Yo!‖ independently or as part of its trade mark which remains ‗Maggi'.
Nor is the expression used as a part of its product name ―Cuppa Mania‖ Section 2(1)(m) of the said Act defines ―mark‖ as follows:- From the manner in which ―Yo‖ is used in the expressions ―Masala Yo!‖ and ―Chilly Chow Yo!‖ in the appellant's products displayed above it does not appear that it has been used for the purpose of indicating a connection between the appellant's products and the respondent.
At this juncture, it would be appropriate to also deal with the learned Single Judge's observation that there was no explanation forthcoming from the appellant as to why it had used the exclamation mark (!)
First of all, the appellant did not use the word ―Yo‖ independently.
Secondly, since the expressions used by the appellant are ―Masala Yo!‖ and ―Chilly Chow Yo!‖, it cannot be said that the appellant used the mark ―Yo!‖ (ie., ―Yo‖ with the exclamation mark ―!‖) or that the exclamation mark ―!‖ simply ended the whole expressions ―Masala Yo‖ and ―Chilly Chow‖.
The word ―Yo‖ is an interjection and is ―used especially to call attention, to indicate attentiveness, or to express affirmation‖ (see: Merriam-Webster Online Dictionary).
The words ―Masala‖ (spice or spicy) and ―Chilly Chow‖ denote flavours.
The word ―Yo‖ following these words only calls attention of the customers to the flavours and expresses affirmation of the flavour of the product.
The exclamation mark ―!‖ ends the expressions with a further emphasis.
Coming back to point no.1, we find that there is clear prima facie indication that the mark ―Yo‖ (with or without the exclamation mark ―!‖) was not used by the appellant as a trade mark.
The consequence of this is that infringement under section 29(1) is not made out.
Section 29(1) stipulates that:-  The key words are - ―and in such manner as to render the use of the mark likely to be taken as being used as a trade mark‖.
Thus, unless the mark in question is used in such manner, the use of the mark by itself would not amount to infringement under sub-section (1) of section 29 of the said Act.
We have already seen that the mark ―Yo‖ (with or without the exclamation mark ―!‖) has not be used as a trade mark nor is its use likely to be taken as being used as a trade mark.
Point 2: The prima facie finding of the learned Single Judge is that infringement is made out under section 29(4) or (5) of the said Act.
The said provision reads as under:- We may recall that the learned Single Judge held that the use of the mark ―Yo!‖ by the appellant ―appears‖ to fall within Section 29(4)(b) of the said Act.
And, in so concluding, the learned Single Judge, in our view, fell into error.
All the clauses (a) to (c) of sub-section (4) of section 29 are to be cumulatively satisfied before a case of infringement can be established.
It is not as if the said clauses are disjunctive or are to be read independently.
It is not sufficient for making out a case of infringement under section 29(4) of the said Act to say that the case falls under clause (a) or clause (b) or clause (c).
The conditions specified in all the three clauses have to be satisfied.
This is obvious from the word ―and‖ used in each of the said three clauses.
Clause (a) of section 29(4) requires that the mark in question be identical with or similar to the registered trade mark.
The mark used by the appellant is ―Yo‖ (with or without the exclamation mark).
The respondent's trade mark ―Yo!‖ is registered for T- shirts etc., under class 25 and for restaurants under class 42.
China‖ is registered under classes 29 (meat, fish, poultry etc.), 30 (which includes noodles) and 32 (Beer, ale, port etc.).
While the appellant's mark ―Yo‖ (with or without the exclamation mark) could be regarded to be identical with or, at least, similar to the respondent's registered trade mark ―Yo!‖, the same cannot be said in respect of the respondent's trade mark ―Yo!
We agree with the submission made on behalf of the appellant that the trade mark as a whole is to be seen in view of the provisions of section 17 of the said Act.
Considered in this light, the mark ―Yo‖ and the registered trade mark ―Yo!
So, it is only when ―Yo‖ is compared with the registered trade mark ―Yo!‖ that the condition specified in clause (a) of section 29(4) is satisfied.
Clause (b) stipulates that the mark in question must be used in relation to goods or services which are not similar to those for which the trade mark is registered.
The mark ―Yo‖ is used by the appellant in respect of noodles which fall under class 30.
Whereas, the registered trade mark ―Yo!‖ of the respondent is in respect of T-shirts etc., under class 25 and restaurants under class 42.
Noodles are goods which are entirely different from T-shirts under class 25 or the service of restaurants under class 42.
So, when ―Yo‖ is compared with ―Yo!‖, in the facts of this case, the condition specified in clause (b) is also satisfied.
But, this is not sufficient to constitute infringement as the conditions prescribed in clause (c) must also be fulfilled.
They are:- The first question which arises is this - does ―Yo!‖ have a reputation in India?
While the respondent has placed material on record to prima facie establish that it has continuously, and openly used the trade mark ―Yo!
China‖ for over six years in respect of its chain of restaurants, there is little, if at all, to suggest that it has used so used the mark ―Yo!‖.
We must emphasize that we are not, for the purposes of clause (c), concerned with the registered trade mark ―Yo!
China‖ and ―Yo!‖, in the context of their separate and independent reputations in India, escaped the attention of the learned Single Judge.
So, while the mark ―Yo‖ as used by the appellant may be regarded to be similar if not identical to the respondent's registered trade mark ―Yo!‖, there is nothing on record to establish, even prima facie, that the latter trade mark has been so continuously or extensively used that it has developed a ―reputation‖ in India.
The next question which requires to be considered in the context of clause (c) is this - has the appellant used the mark ―Yo‖ without due cause?
In other words, is there a tenable explanation for the use of the mark ―Yo‖ by the appellant?
It must be remembered that we have already concluded, prima facie, that the mark ―Yo‖ has not been used by the appellant as a trade mark.
In fact, the word ―Yo‖ has been used as part of the expressions ―Masala Yo!‖ and Chilly Chow Yo!‖ The appellant has explained that the word ―Yo‖ has been used in both expressions to invite the attention of the customers (and, particularly the younger customers who are prone to use the word ―Yo‖ in their day-to-day conversations) to the flavours ―masala‖ and ―chilly chow‖.
Consequently, it cannot be said that the mark ―Yo‖ was used without due cause.
Mere use of the mark ―Yo‖ would not bring it within the mischief of clause (c) of section 29(4).
Because if that was the intention of parliament then the expression ―without due cause‖ would not have been used.
The third and last question which could have arisen in the context of clause (c) is - does the use of the mark ―Yo‖ by the appellants take unfair advantage of or is detrimental to the ―distinctive character‖ or repute of the registered trade mark?
But such a question does not arise in the facts of the present case because the other necessary conditions of ―reputation in India‖ and ―without due cause‖, as pointed out above, have not been fulfilled.
From the foregoing discussion, it is obvious that section 29(4) would not apply and the learned Single Judge erred in holding otherwise.
We shall now consider the applicability of section 29(5) of the said Act, which reads as under:-  Thus, infringement of the kind referred to in section 29(5) is also not made out.
The answer to Point No.2 is that a case of infringement is not made out against the appellant under section 29(4) or (5) of the said Act.
Point 3:  The question is whether the expressions ―Masala Yo!‖ and ―Chilly Chow Yo!‖ can be said to be flavour descriptors and hence eligible for protection under section 30(2)(a) of the said Act against an infringement action?
Section 30(2)(a) is as follows:- The argument of the learned counsel for the respondent is that ―Yo‖ cannot be regarded as a flavour descriptor as sought to be alleged by the appellant.
But, it must be kept in mind that the word ―Yo‖ has not been used in isolation.
Had it been used alone, independent of any other word, phrase or expression, there might have been merit in what was contended on behalf of the respondent.
Here, ―Yo‖ is used as an integral part of the expressions ―Masala Yo!‖ and ―Chilly Chow Yo!‖ The said expressions do describe the characteristics of the goods in the sense that they refer to the flavours of the noodles.
It was argued on behalf of the respondent that ―Yo‖ by itself does not describe any flavour and that it has been added ‗mischievously'.
But, it may be argued with equal vigour that the use of the word ―Yo‖ is not mere surplusage or mischievous as it has been used to provide emphasis to the flavours ―Masala‖ and ―Chilly Chow‖ in a manner which appeals to the customers and, especially, to the younger customers.
If the latter argument were to be accepted then the defence under section 30(2)(a) of the said Act would be available to the appellant.
That , of course, would have to await a final determination in the suit.
But, at this interlocutory stage the least that can be said is that the appellant's submission that the mark ―Yo‖ has been used as a part of a flavour descriptor is at least an arguable one and cannot be shut out at the threshold.
In this context it would be necessary to re-state the principles governing the grant of an interlocutory injunction, particularly, in trade mark cases.
The grant of an interlocutory injunction is a matter of discretion of the court.
The Supreme Court also noted that ‗now' the courts in England go into the question of comparative strength of the cases of rival parties, apart from the other requirements of balance of convenience and irreparable injury which cannot be compensated in money.
This is also in keeping with the requirements of the said Act inasmuch as it not only describes what amounts to infringement (see: section 29) but it also makes provision for what does not amount to infringement (see: section 30).
Thus, apart from examining the case in the context of section 29 of the said Act only from the standpoint of the respondent/plaintiff, it was also incumbent upon the learned Single Judge to consider the relative or comparative strength of the appellant's/defendant's case both under section 29 and section 30(2)(a) of the said Act.
The contention raised by the appellant that ―Yo‖ was not used independent of the expressions ―Masala‖ and ―Chilly Chow‖, which clearly indicate flavours, but, as part of the complete expressions ―Masala Yo!‖ and ―Chilly Chow Yo!‖ and was, therefore, entitled to the protection under section 30(2)(a), was ‗strong' enough in the balance of comparative strengths to deny the respondent an interlocutory injunction.
This vital consideration of the comparative strengths of the rival cases is missing in the impugned decision.
We are also of the view that the reliance placed by the learned Single Judge on Indian Shaving Products (supra), where the two marks in question were ―Duracell Ultra‖ and ―BPL Ultra‖ and on Yahoo Inc (supra), where the dispute was between the names of two websites, namely, ―Yahooindia.com‖ and ―Yahoo.com‖, was misplaced.
This is so because in both the said decisions the rival marks were used as trade marks, whereas in the present case the appellant's use of the mark ―Yo‖ is not as a trade mark.
The learned Single Judge, as mentioned above, found, prima facie, that ―Yo!‖ and ―Yo!
He also observed that, prima facie, it appeared that these marks had acquired a ‗secondary' meaning insofar as chowmein (noodles) were concerned.
We shall briefly dwell on these prima facie conclusions of the learned Single Judge.
We have already indicated that though there is material to show continuous use of the mark ―Yo!
China‖ by the respondent in respect of its restaurant business, there was no material before the learned Single Judge with regard to the use, by the respondent, of the mark ―Yo!‖ It must also be remembered that the dispute here is with the use of the mark ―Yo‖ (with or without the exclamation mark) and, therefore, the comparison has to be made with the repondent's registered trade mark ―Yo!‖ and not ―Yo!
China‖ which, taken as a whole, cannot be confused with ―Yo‖.
There was no material before the learned Single Judge to conclude, prima facie of course, that ―Yo!‖ had acquired distinctiveness through usage since 2002.
A trade mark acquires distinctiveness when, in the eyes of the public, it distinguishes the goods or services connected with the proprietor of the mark from those connected with others.
On the basis of the material before us and upon a prima facie look, the answer is - No. Distinctiveness of a mark may arise in two ways: (1) it may be inherently distinctive; (2) it may acquire distinctiveness by developing a secondary meaning.
A secondary meaning results when, "in the minds of the public, the primary significance of a [mark] is to identify the source of the product rather than the product itself."
On the basis of the material on record it cannot be said that the dictionary and popular meaning of the word ―Yo‖ as an exclamation or as an expression calling attention is lost and whenever the word ―Yo‖ (with or without the exclamation mark) appears on a product or in relation to a service (even if used as a trade mark) the minds of the public are straightaway directed to the source of the product or service.
At this interlocutory stage, there is nothing to suggest that the word ―Yo‖ in ―Masala Yo!‖ and ―Chilly Chow Yo!‖ would create a connection in the minds of the customers with the respondent as being the source of the product.
On the contrary, the use of the mark ―Yo‖, retains its primary meaning of inviting attention or as an exclamation.
This is all the more so because the appellant's distinctive trade mark ―MAGGI‖ is prominently displayed on the appellant's ―Cuppa Mania‖ products.
In view of the foregoing discussion, the impugned order cannot be sustained.
We are mindful of the principle that, normally, an appellate court ought to be slow in interfering with the discretionary jurisdiction of the trial court in the grant of interlocutory injunctions.
We find that on the material available at this interlocutory stage, the view taken by the learned Single Judge was not at all reasonably possible on a proper application of settled principles of law and express statutory provisions.
It is because of this reason that the impugned order cannot be sustained and requires to be set aside.
The appeal is allowed and the impugned order is set aside.
BADAR DURREZ AHMED, J VEENA BIRBAL, J February 10, 2010 HJ