By this order, I shall dispose of IA No11331/2008 filed under Order XXXIX Rule 1 and 2 read with Section 151 of the Code of Civil Procedure (‗CPC' for brevity) seeking temporary injunction restraining the defendants from infringing the copyrights in the books as stated in the plaint and IA No14897/2008 filed under Order XXXIX Rule 4 CPC by Defendants no. 1 and 3 seeking the vacation and modification of order dated 17092008 passed by this Court.
The brief factual matrix of the matter can be enunciated as under:  The plaintiffs (collectively) claim to be pioneers in their respective fields of publishing academic, scientific and other educational books which are circulated world wide.
The plaintiffs claim to have a repertoire of the books which are published by them and are available globally at the prices settled by the plaintiffs.
It is averred in the plaint that the Indian market is quite significant for all the plaintiffs' publishers and keeping in mind the requirement of the business, demand of the books and the economic viability of the purchasers, the plaintiffs decided to expand their operations in India by introducing Low Price Editions of their books so that the same international level books which are otherwise quite costly may be made available to Indian and other Asian students in a cost effective manner at the rates befitting the Asian markets.
In this spirit, the plaintiff no. 1 authorized plaintiff no. 2 to publish its works in Wiley Student Edition for distribution only in the territories of India, Bangladesh, Nepal, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Indonesia, Myanmar, Phillipines and Vietnam.
The books which are published are subject to territorial restrictions imposed by the plaintiff no. 1 and should contain the following notice: The plaintiff no. 1 contends that in this manner, being the owner of the rights it has given exclusive license to plaintiff no. 2 to publish and print an English Language reprint edition only in the territories entailed in the agreement and not beyond that.
Likewise, the plaintiff no. 3 has given an exclusive license to the plaintiff no. 4 for printing, publishing, and distributing the books of plaintiff no. 3 in the territories of India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Nepal and Sri Lanka.
The plaintiff no. 4 is required to imprint the following notice on the books of plaintiff no. 3 : The plaintiff no. 5 maintains the same situation by contending that the plaintiff no. 6 is authorized to publish and distribute the works of plaintiff no. 5 in India and its neighbouring states by printing the following notice : The plaintiffs contend that any attempt by anyone to sell, distribute or circulate the books outside the territories prescribed by the owners of the copyright shall cause infringement of the copyright.
The said claim is averred in the plaint by stating that India is signatory to the Universal Copyright Convention and the Berne Convention and the rights of a copyright holder shall extend to the member countries by virtue of Section 40 of the Copyright Act.
It is further averred in the plaint that the said books are reprint editions which are first published in US and thereafter the reprints are effected by the licensees under the aforesaid arrangement by their respective licencees in India for sale in designated territories.
The grievance of the plaintiffs begins with the rampant problem of the export of books which are reprint editions meant for the Indian and neighbouring territories to the Western Countries which not only causes copyright infringement but also leads to royalty losses of the plaintiffs who are the owners of the respective copyrights.
The plaintiffs claim in the suit to have taken suitable action by way of complaints before the custom officials and court actions filed earlier before this Court.
The plaintiffs state that their attention was drawn to Defendant No. 3 Technischer Overseas Pvt. Ltd., a bookseller in Delhi trading under the website ‗wwwalibriscom' was offering online sale and delivery worldwide of the Low Price Editions of the plaintiffs' publications.
As per plaintiffs, the defendant No3 is owned and operated by defendant Nos1 and 2 herein who are the Directors of defendant No3 having their address at P-18, Green Park Extension, New Delhi.
The plaintiffs have also described their predicament insofar as the defendants are attracting customers by misrepresenting that the books put up by them for sale are identical to those of the plaintiffs'.
The said misrepresentation in the defendants' own words as stated in the plaint can be described as under: Other websites ‗www.biblio.com' and ‗www.biblion.co.uk' also find mention of the plaintiffs' books by defendant no. 3 and the defendants target customers by describing the reprint editions as "Brand New International Edition in soft cover and black and white.
The plaintiffs allege that these acts of the defendants of diverting the Low Price Edition books which are meant for sale in India and its neighbouring states to the USA, UK and other countries for which the books are not meant amounts to infringement of the plaintiffs copyright in the said books.
It is submitted that the placing of the said books in circulation, that too in the countries for which the books are not meant, without the permission of the plaintiffs, is a clear infringement of the copyright of the plaintiffs.
The plaintiffs have also substantiated their cause of action by stating that in the month of July 2008, the plaintiffs' representative in New York had placed an order for the purchase of two books titled ―Microwave Engineering 3/e‖ by David M Pozar and ―Fundamentals of Fluid Mechanics 5/e‖ by Bruce R Munson, Donald F Young and Theodore H Okiishi for the price of US$ 1660 and US$ 1730 respectively.
The plaintiffs state that the US editions of the above books are priced at US$ 149 and US$ 17295 respectively.
The plaintiffs representative received the said order by way of an India Speed Post sealed package and it was found that the said books are Wiley Student Editions which are restricted for sale in Bangladesh, Myanmar, India, Indonesia, Nepal, Pakistan, Philippines, Sri Lanka and Vietnam.
Thus, the plaintiffs state that there is no reason to doubt that it is defendant no. 3 managed by Defendant no. 1 and 2 which is carrying out such activities of infringement of the plaintiffs' rights.
In August 2008, the plaintiffs again repeated the exercise by ordering 5 titles from the defendants' bookstore on the internet and recorded confirmation for multiple titles and receipt of US $ 15280.
Details of these titles are as under : The said books were received by the plaintiffs' representative in USA and the same were also sent to the plaintiffs constituted attorney and the notarial certificate was also prepared certifying the contents of the parcel from the defendants.
It is further submitted that the defendants are sending these posts by way of courier and speed posts by providing false and fictitious names and incomplete addresses of the sender which makes it clear that the defendants are conscious of their wrongful infringing acts.
Accordingly, the plaintiffs have filed this suit to restrain the defendants from infringing the copyright of the plaintiffs by exporting the books of the plaintiffs to the countries outside the territories prescribed on the publications of the plaintiffs.
The plaintiffs have also filed an application seeking temporary injunction against the defendants being IA no. 11331/2008 which came up for hearing with the main suit on 17092008 when this Court passed an ex parte order to the following effect: Pursuant to notice, the defendants have appeared and filed an application being IA no. 14897/ 2008 for vacation of ex-parte injunction and also the written statement in the matter.
The defendants have raised manifold defences in the written statement and counter arguments which can be stated as under:  iii) There is no case made out as regards parallel imports where goods are brought into the territory of India and if the same are found to be infringing, they can be said to be infringement of the rights of the right holder.
In contradistinction to this, the case which the plaintiffs are building is of export of the articles from India in which case there cannot be any infringement so far as the export of books from India is concerned and at best, the same may be infringement of the rights of the plaintiffs in the country where the said books are imported.
iv) The plaint does not disclose any cause of action qua infringement and same is liable to rejected under Order VII Rule 11 CPC as there is no case made out for infringement of copyright.
v) The defendants rely upon the rule of ‗exhaustion of rights' enshrined in the copyright regime whereby the rights of the copyright holder are lost once the first sale of the article is effected i.e. the owner's control over the article and the rights therein are exhausted on the first sale and he/she cannot control every subsequent sale by enforcing rights over the same.
The said doctrine of first sale, according to the defendants operates in USA and is legally accepted.
Thus, USA is the place where the plaintiffs ought to have sued the defendants.
As the plaintiffs are conscious that their rights can be defeated in the USA because of first sale doctrine, the plaintiffs have filed this suit in India where there is no act of infringement.
vi) The plaintiffs have no privity of contract with the defendants and thus the defendants are not bound by the conditions mentioned on the books.
vii) The injunctory relief sought by the plaintiffs against the defendants raises the trade barriers and is an unfair trade practice and an anti competitive one.
viii) The suit for injunction filed by the plaintiffs is not maintainable in view of the provisions of the Specific Relief Act, 1963 as there is no right which entitles the plaintiffs to an injunction and no corresponding obligation upon the defendants thereon.
ix) The conduct of the plaintiffs is inequitable as the distributors of the plaintiffs themselves are exporting the books to various territories and are making illicit profits thereon.
In these circumstances, the plaintiffs are debarred from attributing the said wrong to the defendants when they themselves are guilty of the same one.
After completion of pleadings, both the applications were listed before this Court and the same were heard at considerable length.
The reasoning which is relevant for the purposes of the present discussion is in paragraph 10 of the judgment which can be read as under : Likewise, as per the learned senior counsel for the plaintiffs the ratio of the judgment that the non control of the sale or resale in one country cannot abrogate the laws in another country can be conveniently applied to exports also.
In other words, that the sale or resale of the Low Price Edition Books cannot be controlled in India is acceptable but the same by way of export cannot violate the international copyright of the plaintiffs in other countries.
It is also submitted by the learned senior counsel for the plaintiffs that Penguin (supra) holds that the importer would be subject to the laws of the territory where he happens to import the books.
Here, we are concerned with the exporter and not the importer and the exporter would be subject to the laws from where he is exporting the books.
Next submission of Mr. Rohatgi is that a meaningful reading of the words ―already in circulation‖ in Section 14 needs to be made in as much as the copies which are made available to the public in India may not be made available to the public in USA and UK so far as the Low Price Editions/ Student editions of the books are concerned.
This submission has been made to controvert the argument of first sale doctrine to demonstrate that the interpretation of first sale doctrine given by the defendants would mean that once the sale of the article has been effected in India, then the owner loses/exhausts all the rights to control the subsequent sale anywhere in the world which would be incongruous as the books which are in circulation in India may not be in circulation elsewhere in the world.
Hence, the submission of Learned Senior counsel for the plaintiffs is that once the export is effected to the territories beyond the ones indicated upon the books, then the books which are not in circulation in the public of that territory are made available to them, which would lead to infringement of the copyright of the plaintiffs.
Mr. Rohatgi countered the applicability of the first sale doctrine by stating that the same would be inapplicable in the present case in view of the preceding submission which is that the books so exported are not already in circulation in the territory where they are exported.
Further, it is strenuously argued by Mr. Rohatgi that the first sale doctrine is limited to the goods lawfully manufactured in USA only.
The learned senior counsel sought to distinguish the decisions cited by the defendants which are primarily the decisions made by Courts in USA which include : Relying upon these observations, it is contended by the learned senior counsel for the plaintiffs that the defendants' defence of first sale doctrine is misplaced and the same is not applicable in the present case.
It is submitted by Mr. Rohatgi that if at all there is any exhaustion of rights, the same would be limited to the territories where the sales are effected by the owner/ authorized to be effected by the owner which means the territories indicated on the book and not beyond the same.
Thus, the first sales doctrine has limited applicability to the extent of territorial limitation.
Learned senior counsel for the plaintiff stated that this Court is the appropriate forum to adjudicate the present dispute as the defendants are offering the books for sale from India, they are purchasing the same from India and thereafter exporting to other territories.
The defendants are amenable to the jurisdiction of this court as they are carrying on such business and residing within territorial jurisdiction of this court.
Section 19 of the Sales of Goods Act, 1930 is relied upon to support the submission that the property in the goods shall pass where the parties intend it to be transferred.
He argued that there is a consent decree which is passed against the Defendant no. 2 on 422008 by United States District Court Southern District, New York whereby the Defendant no. 2 has agreed to suffer a decree of permanent injunction amongst others in the said proceeding.
Operative part of the decree reads as under : The learned counsel for the plaintiffs summed up his submissions by stating that in view of the foregoing submissions, there is a prima facie case in favour of the plaintiffs as the defendants are illegitimately exporting the Low Price Editions of the books to the territories outside the ones indicated on the books and causing infringement of copyright.
Further, the balance of convenience is in favour of the plaintiffs as it is plaintiffs' rights which are being violated by reason of the defendants' acts.
It is also argued by him that similar rights have been protected by this Court in various cases and parties have suffered an injunction against them.
The plaintiffs are likely to suffer irreparable damage if the defendants are not restrained by way of appropriate injunction orders by this Court.
Thus, the present case warrants the grant and confirmation of interim orders granted on 1792008 by this Court.
Per Contra the submissions of Mr. Rahul Gupta, learned counsel for the defendants can be summarized in the following manner: It was argued by Mr. Gupta that the first sales doctrine is applicable to the present case and the plaintiffs have exhausted all their rights to control the subsequent sales of the books after effecting the first sale in India.
It was argued that the first sale doctrine is applicable to the Indian Act as well.
He argued that there is no case of infringement of any copyright in Indian jurisdiction and the sale of books in India is not in any manner illegal as per the provision of Section 2(m) read with Section 14 (a) (ii) read with explanation read with Section 51 of the Copyright Act where the rights of the owner have been limited to issuance of copies which are not already in circulation.
Learned counsel for the defendant has read the explanation appended to the Section which reads (a)..... (i) ..... (ii) to issue copies of the work to the public not being copies already in circulation; Explanation.--For the purposes of this section, a copy which has been sold once shall be deemed to be a copy already in circulation.
Mr. Gupta submitted that the words ―already in circulation‖ clearly recognize the first sales doctrine whereby once the owner of copyright has exercised his right to issue the copies, the owner loses all future rights to control the subsequent sales of the same work.
He argued that the owner's right is not absolute but is curtailed by the first sales doctrine.
which according to learned counsel for the defendants recognizes the said doctrine of first sales in relation to the literary works.
The relevant paragraphs relied upon by the defendants are paragraphs 58 and 63 of the judgment.
Mr. Gupta also submitted that the foreign judgment/consent decree passed in the US Court is not binding upon this Court and does not effect the case of the defendants.
Lastly, it was argued by the learned counsel for the defendants that this Court does not have territorial jurisdiction to try the present matter as there is no cause of action which has occurred within the territorial jurisdiction of this court.
After hearing the submissions made by the parties, I feel it appropriate to divide my discussion on the subject into the following heads:  c) Conclusion Infringement of copyright Copyright is a bundle of rights which is meant for authors and creators so that they may reap the benefits of their creations.
The said rights also enable the owners/right holders to exploit their work to the maximum by controlling the distribution of their work.
This can be done through multiple licencing arrangements which can be further subjected to territory wise distribution.
Due to the advent of new and upgraded technology, copyright law has seen new dimensions and several branches of sub rights have emerged which have become ways of exploiting the creator's works.
These rights include licenses like distribution rights, cable rights, television rights, radio rights, cinematograph rights and all other multimedia rights which operate to the exclusion of each other.
In this world of commerce, the primary aim of copyright which was meant for rewarding literary and artistic creativity and prowess seems to have been lost.
In the present case also, this Court is faced with a situation wherein the defendants have found a way of doing business by taking orders online and thereafter exporting/ shipping the books published by the plaintiffs (exclusive licensees) whose sale and distribution is subject to territorial restriction to the territories where they are not intended to be distributed by the plaintiffs.
This court is invited to answer the question as to whether the act amounts to infringement of copyright or not.
The rights of the owners of copyright are defined under Section 13 and 14 of the Copyright Act, 1957.
The Sections are reproduced hereinafter for the sake of discussion: A collective reading of the above Sections make it abundantly clear that copyright subsists in a literary work by virtue of Section 13 of the Act.
Section 14 of the Act carves out the rights for the different copyright subjects which are subject to the other provisions of the Act.
Section 51(a) defines the infringement of copyright which by basically outlining the primary acts of infringement by any person who does the acts which are conferred on the owner of the copyright without licence or in contravention of the conditions of the licence.
The said rights are the rights which are provided under Section 14 of the Act.
The rights conferred under Section 14 of the Act are subject to the provisions of the Act.
The said aspect needs consideration in the present case so as to demarcate the rights which are conferred upon the exclusive licencee which Section 14 provides for and meaning of the copyright in respect of the various subjects of the copyright and definition of the rights.
Thus, the rights under Section 14 of the Act can be limited or circumscribed by the owner as per his/her desire in the manner provided in subsequent chapters relating to assignment and transmission.
Chapter VI of the Copyright Act deals with the aspect of licensing which is merely a permissive right and is a way of limiting the rights of the license by the owner of the copyright.
Section 30 reads as under: Section 30 A provides the applicability of Section 19 and 19 A of the Act by way of necessary adaptation and modification.
The said Section 19 and 19A reads :  A careful reading of the Section further makes it clear that the owner by exercising the right to licence further demarcates the rights and imposes conditions and limitations by way of a period wise licence or territory wise licence exclusive or non exclusive etc. Licencing is a mode of maximum exploitation of the rights under the Act by imposing conditions and limitations upon the rights.
In the present case, the plaintiff no. 1 has authorized the plaintiff no. 2 as an exclusive licencee to publish the books of the plaintiff no. 1 in India for the limited the territories.
Likewise is the situation with plaintiff no. 3 and 4 and 5 and 6.
The said licensing arrangement is done by the owners of the copyright by way of imposing the relevant territorial condition in the agreement of licencing.
The plaintiffs have filed their agreement of licensing wherein the necessary clauses are discussed hereinafter: a) The agreement between plaintiff no. 1 and plaintiff no. 2 is dated March 30, 2007 which is effective from May 1, 2006 and the said agreement relates to permission to issue reprint editions of the books.
The clauses of the agreement reads as under :  Such titles are hereinafter referred to as ―works:.
The reprint editions of the works prepared by Wiley India Pvt Ltd are hereinafter referred to collectively as ―The Reprints‖ .‖ The said agreement is the transfer of the licensing rights from previous licencee John Wiley & Sons (Asia) Pvt. Ltd to Wiley India Pvt. Ltd. Further, the agreement talks about the termination clause in case of failure of the licencee to perform its obligation.
The said agreement is also subject to limitation of 5 years from the date of the execution.
There is a royalty payable which is 10% of the publisher's net receipt for each reprint.
All these denote the intention of the parties to enter into the licensing arrangement.
Likewise the plaintiffs have filed in the list of documents the titles of the books wherein the relation between the plaintiff no. 3 and 4, and 5 and 6 are acknowledged on the titles itself.
The said titles reads as under :  Published by Dorling Kindersley India Pvt Ltd, a Licensees of Pearson Education in South Asia.........‖ Similar is the situation with the plaintiff no. 3 and 4.
All these documents are prima-facie indications that the plaintiffs 1, 3, 5 are the owners and the plaintiffs no. 2, 4, 6 are licencees for the limited territories.
The above interplay of the provisions of the Act clarifies the position that the rights defined under Section 14 of the Act are subject to the provisions of assignment and licensing and their limitations thereof.
Further, the rights of a licencee are not the same as those of the owner.
Coming back to Section 51(a) of the Copyright Act, 1957 which defines infringement under the Act, the Section provides that the copyright shall be deemed to be infringed by a person who without a licence granted by the owner of the copyright or in contravention to the conditions of a licence so granted does anything, the exclusive rights to do which is by this Act conferred upon the owner of the copyright.
The primary infringement of the copyright under Section 51 (a) of the Act is the violation of the rights conferred upon the owner of the copyright.
Infringement of rights under the Act has thus to be seen from the perspective of the rights of the owner and not those of the licencee.
There is fine distinction between the limited rights of the licencee and those of the owner.
It is an established principle of the law that when a plain and a natural reading and meaning of a Section is clear and unambiguous, then the court cannot insert or introduce any words to the Section and cannot depart from the plain reading principle or literal rule.
In Association for Development versus Union of India & Others, 167 (2010) DLT 481 DB this court approved the literal rule and observed that ―it is not the duty of the court to enlarge the scope of the legislation when the language of the provision is plain and unambiguous.
The court cannot recast or reframe the legislation for the very reason it has no power to legislate.
The court cannot add words to a statute or reads words into it which are not there."
Applying the plain rule and giving it its natural and existing meaning, Section 51 of the Copyright Act talks about infringement of the rights of the owner which are different from that of the licencee.
It may be possible that the bundle of the rights of the owner may include the rights of the licencee, but the infringement of the rights has to be measured from the rights of the owner and not from the limited rights of the licencee.
The difference between the rights of the owner and exclusive licencee also becomes more apparent in view of Section 54(a) which is a defining Section, only applicable for the purposes of Chapter XII.
The Section reads: The limited applicability of the present Section which defines the owner of the copyright which include the exclusive licensee only for the purposes of Chapter XII is indicative of the legislative intent which is that the Legislature intended to treat the owner of the copyright and exclusive licencee at parity only for the limited purpose of chapter XII and not for all other purposes.
The said Chapter XII under the Act deals with the civil remedies including civil remedies for infringement under Section 55 of the Act.
The said Section 55 reads as under: The limited applicability of definition of an owner of copyright to include exclusive licensee only for the purposes of Chapter XII indicates the legislative intent which is to give benefit to the copyright owner to have additional right to sue for the purposes of suing for infringement of copyright through the exclusive licensee clear.
But for the purposes of the other chapters including the allocation of rights and defining the rights under the Act, the definition of the owner including exclusive licencee will not be applicable.
This is a rather deliberate omission vis-à-vis the other chapters and a conscious insertion/exception by the Legislature only for Chapter XII to give additional right to sue to the copyright owner through its exclusive licensee.
A logical corollary drawn from above analysis which needs reiteration at this stage is that for the purposes of Section 51 which is in the preceding chapter, the term ―owner of the copyright‖ does not include exclusive licencee.
Thus, the rights of the owner although may include rights of the exclusive licensee but the court cannot read the term ―owner of the copyright‖ as that of the exclusive licencee and their rights are different as per the allocation by the owner.
Once, the legal proposition is crystallized that the court will concern itself with the infringement of rights of the owner of the copyright and not that of the exclusive licencee, it becomes easier to understand the present discussion and also the meaning of the copyright under Section 14 of the Act.
In the present case, the plaintiff nos. 1, 3 and 5 are the owners of copyright in their respective literary works and they have licenced their rights subject to territorial restrictions as mentioned above to plaintiff nos. 2, 4 and 6.
The rights of the owners of the copyright which are plaintiff nos. 1, 3, and 5 will be broader and will not be subject to any limitation as against the rights of exclusive licensees which are plaintiff nos. 2, 4 and 6.
The relevant excerpt of Section 14 of the Act states that the right of the owner of the copyright in the literary work will be a) ..... b) to issue the copies of the work to the public and not being the copies already in circulation c) .....
The right of the owner of the copyright to issue the copies of the work to the public will not be circumscribed by any territorial limitation.
Thus, the owner of the copyright will have the right to issue the copies of the work not being the copies already in circulation worldwide.
This proposition also gets amplified by reading subsequent sections in the Act relating to assignment and licensing.
Section 19 which is also mutatis mutandis applicable to licensing by operation of section 30 A also talks about the mode of the covenant in assignment and licensing.
Section 19 (6) postulates that if the covenant is silent about the territory, then said assignment/ or licensing by deeming fiction of law shall be limited to India.
This is the statutory recognition of the principle that the owner's right under the copyright Act is not circumscribed by the territorial limitation and rather the owner can assign or license its rights worldwide.
This is also applicable to an Indian author or owner, for instance, if an Indian person is the author and the owner of the book, then the said person will have a copyright to issue the copies of his work to the public anywhere in the world.
The right of the owner of the copyright to issue copies of the work to the public in the present case would be the rights of the plaintiff no. 1, 3, 5 to issue copies to the public worldwide including but not limiting to India or to any other territories.
On the other hand, the rights of the exclusive licensees which will be subject to conditions and limitations imposed by the owner of the copyright will flow from both the Statute as well as from the covenant entered between the parties.
Thus, the rights of the plaintiff no. 2, 4 and 6 for the purposes of the Section 14 would be to issue copies of the work to the public of the territories authorized to be done by the owner of the copyright.
In the present case, the rights of the plaintiff no. 2, 4, 6 would thus be fettered by the territorial restrictions imposed by the owner.
The legal propositions which emanate from this discussion are as under: Applying these principles to the present case, it can be seen that the plaintiff no. 1, 3 and 5 are the worldwide owners of the books and their copyright as mentioned and averred in the plaint.
The plaintiff nos. 2, 4 and 6 are the exclusive licensees licensed to publish the said books in India and other territories.
The plaintiffs' grievance is that Defendant no. 3 Technischer Overseas Pvt. Ltd. which is a bookseller in Delhi is purchasing the said Low Price Editions of the books meant for the Indian market and the territories defined from the plaintiffs no. 2, 4, 6 and is offering the said low prize books from the websites www.alibris.com, www.biblio.com to territories outside the prescribed ones on the book is infringing the copyright of the plaintiffs.
The said acts of the defendants of purchase of the books from the exclusive licensees/ licensees are legitimate in nature and do not hinder or take away anyone's rights including the rights of exclusive licensees/ licensee.
But once the said defendant no. 3 offers for sale the books or publications (which are fettered by territorial restrictions purchased from exclusive licensees) and puts them into circulation by selling or offering for sale or by taking orders for sale to the territories beyond the ones for which permission has been granted by the owners of the copyright, the said acts are prima facie tantamount to putting into circulation or issuance of copies not being in circulation in other territories where the right to do so is of the owner to exercise and violates the rights of the owner of the copyright under Section 14 read with Section 51 of the Act, if not the rights of the exclusive licensee.
In other words, the said acts of selling the books from India or offering for sale from India through website and thereafter accepting the money and couriering the books to an unauthorized territory will violate the right of the owners of the copyright which are plaintiff no. 1, 3, 5 to issue the copies to the public not already in circulation (not of exclusive licensees) and thus will, prima facie, infringe their copyright.
It would also be an incongruous proposition to lay down that anyone who purchases the tangible or intangible, movable or immovable property from a licensee who has merely a permissive right which is also subject to restrictions is free to exercise the rights of the owner of the said property, who has wider rights than licensee.
The said acts would be an infringement of the extent of the rights which are available with the owner.
I will also discuss the impact of exhaustion theory on this in the later part of the discussion.
There is another reason for coming to this prima facie opinion.
The acts of the defendants are infringing in character as they are not merely confined to doing the acts of the owner of the copyright without permission or license.
The doing of unauthorized acts of the owner of the copyright is only one kind of infringement.
The other kind of infringement would be to violate the conditions of the licensee and commission of acts going beyond the fetters imposed by the license.
This can be better understood by perusing Section 51 which reads as under:  In all these situations, the doing of the acts of the owner would be deemed to be an infringement under the Act.
The said situations are disjunctive and not conjunctive in the sense that doing of the act even in one situation would be equally an infringement as in other one.
As per the preceding discussion, the rights of the owner of the copyright that is plaintiff nos. 1, 3, 5 are violated as the same are falling under a) being unlicensed acts from the owner and acts of the owner of the copyright within the meaning of Section 14 (1) (b) of the Act.
Another perspective would be that the acts of the defendants would also be in contravention to the conditions of a license so granted by the plaintiff nos. 1, 3 and 5 to plaintiff nos. 2, 4 and 6 which is also the grievance of the plaintiffs.
This is due to the reason that the plaintiff nos. 1, 3 and 5 being the owners of the copyright have the right to exploit their copyright to issue licenses under Section 30 of the Act.
By exercising the said right, licensees have been appointed to issue publications of the Low Price Edition books to the limited territories which are mentioned upon the books as well as on the covenant/ agreement between plaintiffs.
The defendants by doing the acts of purchasing the books from the licensees which are subject to territorial restrictions and by selling the same to the outside territories are prima facie violating/ contravening the terms of the license which has been granted plaintiff nos.1, 3, 5 to them.
For better comprehension of the concept of violation of terms of license, the distinction between the assignment of rights and licensing of rights has been elucidated in Copinger & Skone James on Copyright (Fourteenth Edition by Kevin Garnett MA, Jonathan R James, MA.
LLB, Gillian Davies, PhD, 1999 Edition, London, Sweet & Maxwell) which is an authority on the subject.
The said author also discusses the consequences which flow from the said arrangements.
The relevant extract is reproduced hereinafter: The above quote is also recognized as Section 173(2) of CDPA (Copyright Design and Patent Act, 1988) of England.
The said rule is the basic principle of licensing of any property right which is the recognized rule of equity that the licensee cannot assign what is not available with him.
Thus, the licensee who is the permissive right holder of the copyright which is subject to limitation can assign the said right only and nothing beyond that.
The only exception to that would be a person who is a bona fide purchaser without having notice of the transaction.
In any case, a purchaser from the licensee of any licensed work having knowledge about the said licensee cannot get a better title than the licensee and will be bound by the said license as he is aware of the same at the time of making the said purchase and purchased the same while accepting it.
To that extent, the position of a licensee will remain the same universally and the statutory recognition of the said rule, whether it exists or not, will only create the exception for the bona fide purchaser without notice.
The said position of the licensee is equally applicable in cases of computer software and is seen in normal course when anyone purchases the software.
Computer software are mostly licensed and are sold and distributed with their own conditions and limitations.
The purchasers of the said computer software either from the owner or from the licensee is aware of the arrangement or license agreement that the said computer software for instance is meant for single user or multiple usage.
The said purchaser is within notice while making purchase of the said software and is thus bound by the said conditions of the license.
Once the said purchaser violates the condition of the said license, he/she becomes liable for infringement of copyright of the owner.
Likewise is the case with the books in the present matter.
Once the defendants purchase the Low Price Editions books of the plaintiffs from their exclusive licensee, they are conscious of the fact that the said editions are subject to territorial restrictions which are meant to be sold within the limited territories only.
The notice on the book itself gives knowledge to the purchaser about the said territorial restriction.
The said knowledge is also evident when the defendant themselves offer the same books to the customers outside the territories while representing that "it is an international edition in paperback.
The contents are identical to the American Edition, word for word.
The ISBN differs from the American Edition and the book is in black and white but the contents are completely same as the American Edition at a great price."
The representation to the customers by the defendants that the books advertised by them are international editions with content identical to the US edition is itself evident of the fact that the defendants are aware that the books which are sold in US are not the same as those sold by them.
The said acts of the defendants are also causing royalty losses to the plaintiffs.
Thus, the said acts of the defendants are intentional acts and are prima facie infringing by way of contravention of the conditions of licensing rights which the defendants have attained by way of purchase with notice.
Hence, either seen from the perspective of the rights of the owner or from the position of the licensee, the acts of the defendants are prima facie acts of infringement within the meaning of Section 51 (a) of the Copyright Act 1957.
I shall now discuss the submissions made at the bar by the parties in relation to the aspect of infringement of copyright.
The first submission of the parties with regard to the infringement of copyright stands answered in view of the above discussion resulting in the view that the acts of the defendants are infringing in nature.
A related argument of the defendants was that there is no provision of the Copyright Act which makes the act of export an infringement.
With respect to this argument, the defendants have cited various provisions including Section 2(m) of the Act which defines the expression ‗Infringing copy' and thereafter Section 51 (b) wherein the import of the infringing copy of the work is recognized as secondary infringement.
The argument of the defendants was that in the absence of exports being recognized as infringement, the same cannot become infringement under the Act.
I have examined the argument of the defendants carefully in relation to exports not being recognized expressly as infringement.
The question in the present case is not merely as to whether exports should be recognized as infringement within the meaning of the Act, but rather, the question is whether the rights of the owner of the copyright can be circumvented by merely purchasing the work from the exclusive licensee having limited licence to distribute or publish within certain territories and selling the same to countries outside the territories prescribed by taking the orders in India, reaping the benefits of the said sale in India and causing contravention of the license granted by the owner of the copyright.
If it violates the rights of the owner to put the work into circulation within the meaning of Section 14(1) (a) (ii) read with Section 51 (a), the same would amount to infringement within the Act and it may be incidental that the defendants are carrying out activities which lead to export.
Further, the argument relating to non-recognition of export as infringement is devoid of any merit due to the reason that this Court has prima facie come to the finding that the acts of the defendants are primary acts of the infringement within the meaning of Section 51 (a) of the Act as there is direct involvement of the defendants in violating the rights of the owner as well as the conditions of the license granted by the owner to their licencees.
The said acts of primary infringement are distinct and independent from the infringements which are arising out of the indirect involvements of the defendants like selling, hiring, exhibiting, distributing or importation.
This Court has not drawn any analogy from the import of the article being recognized as infringement which is expressly recognized under Section 51 (b) of the Act and has rather come to independent finding of primary infringement.
This argument of the defendants also fails on the same count.
The argument of the defendants that this Court will not have jurisdiction as there is no cause of action which has arisen in Delhi and therefore the matter will not be subject to provisions of the Copyright Act is also meritless and deserves to be rejected.
This is for the simple reason that this Court has jurisdiction to entertain and try the present proceedings as the jurisdiction of this court to entertain the suit is governed by the ordinary civil law by way of Section 20 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 which reads as under: By virtue of Section 20 of the Code of Civil Procedure, this court possesses the necessary jurisdiction required to entertain and try the present suit as the defendants are carrying on their business within the territorial jurisdiction of this court.
The books are ordered online on the website which bears the address of the defendants carrying on business in Delhi.
The orders are taken and executed in Delhi and the said Low Price Edition books are couriered/ speed posted from Delhi.
Lastly, the profits arising of the said sales out of the books are realized by the defendants in Delhi.
All these necessary and essential parts of the cause of action have arisen within the territorial jurisdiction of this Court.
This Court will have jurisdiction to entertain the present suit by way Section 20 (a) as the defendants are carrying business in Delhi and Section 20 (c) as the part of the cause of action has arisen within the territorial jurisdiction of this Court.
A related argument of the defendants qua jurisdiction was that this Court cannot exercise jurisdiction as till the time the purchases are made the same are legitimate and only when they are exported do they become infringing articles.
For the said reason, the argument was that this Court cannot exercise extra territorial effect and thus has no jurisdiction over subject matter.
The said argument fails as once this court has come to the conclusion that the defendants while purchasing the books from the licensee and taking the orders online, accepting the profits thereof, attempts to export the same, the said act is violative of the regional permission granted by the owner.
The said civil wrong of violation/ infringement is committed in the region where the said violation has been made.
It may be another thing that in the country where the said article is exported, the importer of that State shall also be liable for secondary infringement as per the same analogy and the similar provisions under the law.
But that is the basic difference between primary infringement and secondary infringement and both can coexist simultaneously.
In the instant case, the defendants are directly involved in violating the rights of the owner and the permission granted by the licensor, thus the defendants acts are prima facie acts of primary infringement.
The said defendants are amenable to the jurisdiction of this court.
For the purposes of import, the importer shall be subject to the laws of the country where the articles are imported.
There is no amount to extra territorial effect which has been given by this court while exercising the jurisdiction in the present case.
This court will have jurisdiction to entertain the gamut of the dispute which has been presented before it in all senses.
Now I shall proceed with the second part of the discussion which is the applicability of first sales doctrine and its probable impact.
First Sales Doctrine and its Impact The Learned counsel for the defendant Mr. Gupta has made extensive arguments on the applicability of the doctrine of first sale in order to substantiate that the plaintiffs have lost the right to complain as the plaintiffs cannot control the subsequent sale of the article once the first sale of the same has been effected.
Section 14 (a) (ii) of the Act was read where the rights have been limited to issuance of the copies which are not already in circulation.
Mr. Gupta submitted that the words ― to issue copies of the work to the public not being copies already in circulation‖ clearly recognizes the first sales doctrine whereby once the owner of the copyright has exercised his right to issue to the copies, then the owner loses all future rights to control the subsequent sales on the same work.
Further, learned counsel for the defendants has read the explanation appended to the Section which reads ―explanation thereto for the purposes of this Section, a copy which has been sold once shall be deemed to be a copy already in circulation.‖ The owner's right is not absolute but is curtailed by the first sales doctrine as per the submission of the learned counsel for the defendants.
Warner Bros (supra) has been relied upon which according to learned counsel for the defendant recognizes the said doctrine of first sale in relation to literary works.
Para 58 of the Judgment is reproduced hereinafter : Further, paragraph 63 of the judgment was relied upon to explain that in case of literary works, the exhaustion principle is applicable.
The relevant paragraph is reproduced below: Thus, as per the learned counsel for the defendants, by the applicability of the first sale doctrine alias the exhaustion principle, the plaintiffs have no right to complain against the defendants' acts of exporting Low Price Edition books in the foreign market.
The genesis of the said principle of exhaustion of rights is based on theory that the right holder can only control the first sale of the article and exercise the rights on the same and cannot complain of the infringement on each and every subsequent sale of the same.
The Learned counsel for the defendants has argued that in the present case, by virtue of the applicability of the doctrine of first sale, the plaintiffs have no grievance against the defendant left and thus cannot complain of the infringement.
I have examined this submission and feel that in the present case the doctrine of first sale even if it is applicable does not curtail the rights of the owner due to the following reasons: a) At the outset, again, I would like to reiterate the three propositions a) the meaning of copyright has been defined under Section 14 of the Copyright Act as is clear from the opening words of the Section; b)The rights of the owner have to be looked into as per Section 51 of the Act while measuring infringement; c) The rights of the owner may be broader than that of the licensee.
In the present case, the first sale has been effected by the exclusive licensees plaintiff nos. 2 , 4, 6 and their rights are limited and are subject to the conditions and limitations imposed by the agreement.
That being so, the applicability of the first sale doctrine qua the sales effected by the exclusive licensee to the defendants will at best exhaust the rights of the exclusive licensees to complain and not the rights of the owner.
The right of the owner to complain for remaining infringement in unauthorised territories for violation of the permission granted and violation of the rights will remain intact.
Thus, the applicability of first sale doctrine will partially exhaust the rights of the licencee and not of the owner of the copyright i.e. plaintiff nos. 1, 3 and 5. b) The applicability of the principle of international exhaustion of rights is doubtful.
The said reasoning is based on the argument of the defendants that the plaintiffs will lose all their rights after effecting the first sale to the defendants.
Al., dated 1062008, US District Court, California and also the latest judgment passed by the Learned Single Judge of this court in Warner Bros (supra).
In this respect I would say that the English case laws relied upon by the defendant are the same which have been analyzed thoroughly by the Learned Single Judge of this court in Warner Bros (Supra) where the Learned Single Judge was concerned with the importation of the cinematograph works and came to the conclusion that the doctrine of exhaustion of rights will be confined to literary works only and will be inapplicable to the cinematograph works as the said explanation appended to Section 14 is confined to literary works only as has been discussed in paragraph 63 of that judgment which is afore-mentioned.
Thus, the learned Single Judge has merely came to the conclusion that the doctrine of the exhaustion/ first sale is applicable to literary works although the same has not been applied by the Learned Single Judge in Warner Bros (Supra).
Further, the Learned Single Judge in his judgment doubted the manner of the applicability of the doctrine of exhaustion as to whether the same shall be regional or international exhaustion of rights.
This question was answered by expressing the opinion that the nature of exhaustion whether regional or international shall be dependant upon the scheme of the act and the provisions contained therein, like in the US where there are categorical provisions relating to international exhaustion, the same will be international exhaustion as against in UK, which follows the regional exhaustion policy.
The discussion pertaining to same is in paragraph 59 of the judgment which is reproduced below : The discussion makes it apparent that the learned single judge has doubted the mode of the applicability of the first sales doctrine in India as per the existing law.
The same may lead to partial or regional exhaustion or international exhaustion.
As per my opinion, as the express provision for international exhaustion is absent in our Indian law, it would be appropriate to confine the applicability of the same to regional exhaustion.
Be that as it may, in the present case, the circumstances do not even otherwise warrant this discussion as the rights if at all are exhausted are to the extent to which they are available with the licensees as the books are purchased from the exclusive licensees who have limited rights and not from the owner.
In these circumstances, the question of exhaustion of rights of owner in the copyright does not arise at all.
The learned Single Judge again in paragraph 65 of Warner Bros (supra) doubted the application of international exhaustion and rather expressed his concerns about the illogical arguments and observed results arising out of the applicability in case of licenses.
Para 65 reads as under :  The above concerns of the learned Single Judge can be seen in the present case in light of the fact that the licensee after gaining the copies cannot exploit the rights world wide which is, in fact, the owner's right.
The same is the situation when the articles have been purchased from the licensee.
Thus, Warner Bros (supra) does not come to the aid of the defendants.
The defendants' argument that the first sale doctrine will exhaust the rights of the plaintiffs internationally is incongruous and the same will lead to absurd results in as much as the defendants are the purchasers of the books with notice from the exclusive licensee and not from the owner of the copyright.
Accepting the contention of the defendants would again be nugatory to the principle of the ownership and license.
The owner has full right to enjoy the property and if the property is purchased from the owner only then will the owner lose his rights.
The purchaser after purchasing from the exclusive licensee cannot by claiming the principle of exhaustion or extinguishment of rights defeat the rights of the owner.
This is the only harmonious interpretation possible by invocation of doctrine of first sales in the present case.
In view of the aforementioned reasoning, the argument of applicability of first sale doctrine defeating the rights of the owner fails and the same cannot abridge the rights of the owner to complain of infringement in the present case even if it is applied.
The related arguments of the defendants about the Specific Relief Act fails as a prima facie right has been established in favour of the plaintiff.
Further, there is no unfair competition or barrier to the trade which has been effected by the plaintiffs as the plaintiffs' rights are emanating from the Statute and thus these aspects do not require discussion and the arguments are rejected as meritless.
Conclusion a) The combined reasoning given under the two heads leads to the conclusion that the defendants' acts are prima facie infringing in nature.
The defences put forth by the defendants to defend their usage are not tenable.
Rather, the first sales doctrine if it is applied does not aid the case of the defendant.
Thus, there is prima facie infringement of copyright which warrants the grant of temporary injunction till the disposal of the suit.
c) The plaintiffs have been prima facie successful in establishing that they are the owners of the copyright in the books and the same is being violated by the defendants by putting into circulation the Low Price Editions of the books into territories for which the books are not meant and violating the right of the owner under Section 14 (a) (ii) and also causing the conditions of the licence to be violated and there by causing the infringement of the copyright of the plaintiffs.
The defendants have failed to show any prima facie tenable defence in support of their acts.
d) The balance of the convenience will lie in favour of the plaintiffs as the plaintiffs will be more inconvenienced if the ex parte injunction granted on 1792008 is not confirmed and the defendants are not restrained from carrying out the infringing acts as against the defendant, who will be less inconvenienced.
This is also more so when the defendants have already given an undertaking before US court to not indulge in infringing acts in future.
The plaintiffs will suffer irreparable loss if the defendants are allowed to start carrying out their acts at this stage.
The defendants will not suffer any such loss at this stage as is obvious by weighing the comparative hardship.
To sum up, the plaintiffs have made out a case for the grant of temporary injunction by satisfying the three essentials elements for the grant of injunction.
Consequently, the defendants and their agents, assigns and sister concerns, till the disposal of the suit, are restrained from advertising, offering for sale/exporting any publications of the plaintiffs to the countries outside the territories specified on the books published by the plaintiffs.
It is made clear that any observation made herein shall be treated as tentative in nature and shall not constitute any expression of final opinion on the issues involved and shall have no bearing on the final merit of case and submissions of the parties in the suit.
CS (OS) No.1960/2008 List this matter on 2nd July, 2010 before the Roster Bench.