Interpretation of the provisions of Section 46(1)(b) of the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 (hereinafter called and referred to for the sake of brevity as `the said Act') is involved herein.
The factual matrix of the matter, which is not much in dispute is as under : First Respondent is the registered proprietor of a trade mark `Field Marshal' for Diesel Engines since 1964 bearing No228867.
One M/s. Jain Industries got the trade mark `Field Marshal' registered under clause (7), inter alia, for Flour Mills, Centrifugal Pumps, couplings for machines, pulleys included in class 7 and valves (parts of machines).
The said registration was renewed for the periods 13.5.1972 and 1251979; 13.5.1979 and 1271986 and 13.7.1986 and 12.7.1993.
Appellant is said to have commenced its business of manufacturing and selling centrifugal pumps also under the mark `Field Marshall'.
Allegedly, on the premise that the first respondent is the proprietor of the said mark by reason of long user and, thus, acquired a reputation in that behalf, a legal notice was issued upon it questioning its right to use the said mark in respect of centrifugal pumps by the appellant laying a claim that it had been using the said mark since 1963.
Respondent No1 thereafter filed a suit in the Delhi High Court for grant of a decree of permanent injunction being Suit No.2408 of 1985 alleging infringement of the said mark and/or claiming right of passing off in respect thereof.
An ex parte order of injunction was passed on 19121985 against the defendant (appellant herein) to the following effect : Indisputably, during the proceedings in the above suit, M/s. Jain Industries by a deed of assignment assigned the said trade mark along with its goodwill in favour of the appellant.
One of the stipulations contained therein reads as under : Indisputably, First Respondent filed an application under Section 46, 56 and 107 of the Act, marked as CO No9 of 1986, contending that M/s. Jain Industries having not used the trade mark in respect of Centrifugal Pumps for a period more than five years and one month, the mark should be taken off the register.
It claimed user of the said mark since 1963 and sought for rectification of the register by expunging the expression `circulation and centrifugal pumps' from the specification of goods.
Indisputably, appellant filed an application in form TM 24 on 17.6.1986.
The Assistant Registrar, Trade Marks, passed an order on 10111986 certifying :  In the said CO No9 of 1986 filed by the first respondent against M/s. Jain Industries, despite service of notice, nobody appeared on behalf of the defendant.
Appellant's counsel appeared on that date and, inter alia, contended that presently it was the registered owner of the trade mark which was sought to be cancelled.
In view of that statement, a submission was made on behalf of the first respondent that it may be permitted to withdraw the petition with liberty to file a fresh petition on the same cause of action.
The learned Judge directed recording of statements of the learned counsel in this behalf; pursuant whereto the same were recorded which reads as under :  A writ petition was filed thereagainst by the first respondent.
A learned Single Judge of the Delhi High Court, however, refused to stay the operation of the order of the Board dated 27102004.
The Division Bench of the High Court thereafter while disposing of both the writ petition and the Letters Patent Appeal allowed the writ petition and set aside the order of the Board and directed it to adjudicate the dispute on merits.
The said order of the Division Bench is under challenge in this appeal.
The core question which arises for our consideration is as to whether in the aforementioned facts and circumstances of the case, the application under Section 46(1)(b) was maintainable.
Before adverting thereto, we may take notice of the relevant statutory provisions :  Sections 46(1)(b), 48(1), 48(2) and 56 read as under : (b) that up to a date one month before the date of the application, a continuous period of five years or longer had elapsed during which the trade mark was registered and during which there was no bona fide use thereof in relation to those goods by any proprietor thereof for the time being: Provided that, except where the applicant has been permitted under sub-section (3) of section 12 to register an identical or nearly resembling trade mark in respect of the goods in question or where the tribunal is of opinion that he might properly be permitted so to register such a trade mark, the tribunal may refuse an application under clause (a) or clause (b) in relation to any goods, if it is shown that there has been, before the relevent date or during the relevant period, as the case may be, bona fide use of the trade mark by any proprietor thereof for the time being in relation to goods of the same description, being goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered.
Section 48--Registered users--(1) Subject to the provisions of section 49, a person other than the registered proprietor of a trade mark may be registered as the registered user thereof in respect of any or all of the goods in respect of which the trademark is registered otherwise than as a defensive trade mark; but the Central Government may, by rules made in this behalf, provide that no application for registration as such shall be enertained unless the agreement between the parties complies with the conditions laid down in the rules for preventing trafficking in trade marks.
(2) The permitted use of a trade mark shall be deemed to be used by the proprietor thereof, and shall be deemed not to be used by a person other than the proprietor, for the purposes of section 46 or for any other purpose for which such use is material under this Act or any other law.
Section 56--Power to cancel or vary registration and to rectify the register--(1) On application made in the prescribed manner to a High Court or to the Registrar by any person aggrieved, the tribunal may make such order as it may think fit for cancelling or varying the registration of a trade mark on the ground of any contravention, or failure to observe a condition entered on the register in relation thereto.
(2) Any person aggrieved by the absence or omission from the register of any entry, or by any entry made in the register without sufficient cause, or by any entry wrongly remaining on the register, or by any error of defect in any entry in the ' register, may apply in the prescribed manner to a High Court or to the Registrar, and the tribunal may make such order for making, expunging or varying the entry as it may think fit.
(3) The tribunal may in any proceeding under this section decide any question that may be necessary or expedient to decide in connection with the rectification of the register.
(4) The tribunal, of its own motion, may, after giving notice in the prescribed manner to the parties concerned and after giving them an opportunity of being heard, make any order referred to in sub-section (1) or sub- section (2).
(5) Any order of the High Court rectifying the register shall direct that notice of the rectification shall be served upon the Registrar in the prescribed manner who shall upon receipt of such notice rectify the register accordingly.
(6) The power to rectify the register conferred by this section shall include the power to remove a trade mark registered in Part A of the register to Part B of the register."
Indisputably, the scope of the provisions for removal from Register in terms of Section 46 and 56 of the Act stand on different footings.
Whereas Section 46 had a limited application, Section 56 of the Act is wider in nature.
Concededly, clause (a) of sub-section (1) of Section 46 is not attracted in the case.
For the purpose of appreciation of the rival contentions, we may notice the findings of the Board as also the High Court.
The Board has taken the view that the period of five years and one month will begin to run from the date on which Thukral became the proprietor of the trademark, that is, 30th May, 1986 and, therefore, the rectification application could have been filed by the appellant only sometime in 1991.
Opining that an application for rectification against the appellant within a period of seven and a half months from the date of assignment of the trade mark was not maintainable, the application was dismissed.
The High Court on the other hand opined :  The Act was enacted to provide for the registration and better protection of trademarks and for the prevention of the use of fraudulent marks of merchandise.
Renewal applications are required to be filed on the expiry of seven years.
M/s. Jain Industries got itself registered and obtained periodical renewal thereof as is required under the Act.
The prayer in the application was to take off the registered trade mark from the register in respect of centrifugal pumps (goods) so far as the registration made in favour of the appellant is concerned.
It is in the aforementioned situation, we are called upon to determine the meaning of the words `for the time being' occurring in Section 46(1)(b) of the Act.
Two interpretations thereto which are possible are : (1) the said words would denote non-use of the trade mark in relation to the goods by the appellant for a period of five years or longer; and (2) The mark had not been used for a period of five years or longer either by the present proprietor thereof or his predecessor.
We may, however, also notice that another construction of the said provision has been put forth by Mr. Sunderam, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant, that the word `proprietor' would not mean a registered proprietor but also a person who has become `proprietor' by long use thereof.
The words `for the time being' would mean differently in different situations.
There cannot be any doubt or dispute that the registration of a trade mark confers a very valuable right.
The person in whose name the trade mark has been registered may take action against any person for passing off the goods as that of the registered owner.
It confers an exclusive right of use of the trade mark in relation to the goods in which the trade mark is registered.
The same is an assignable right in terms of Section 36 of the Act, whereas an unregistered trade mark is not.
Non-user of the said mark, therefore, entails the consequences laid down under clause (b) of Sub-section (1) of Section 46.
However, such an application can be filed only by a person aggrieved.
When the applicant before the Board establishes the fact in regard to non-user of the mark for a period of more than five years on the part of the registered owner, the latter may show that his case falls within the purview of sub-section (3) of Section 46.
The question which, therefore, arises is as to who can prove that he had the bona fide intention to use the trade mark on the date of application for registration.
It, therefore, can be taken away only when the conditions laid down therefor are satisfied.
While we say so, we are not oblivious of the fact that trafficking in trade mark is to be discouraged.
A registered proprietor of a trade mark should not be permitted to circumvent the law of user of the trade mark for a long time by assigning the same from time to time.
It must be proved in presence of the person against whom such allegations are made.
At the time of grant of original registration, advertisements are issued and objections are called for.
A person who had been using the said trade mark as a proprietor thereof by user is supposed to keep itself abreast with such applications filed by another either for registration of the trade mark or renewal thereof.
The non-user for a long time would disentitle a registered proprietor from renewal of the registration.
It must not, however, be forgotten that Section 46(1)(b) provides for a special remedy.
As a person obtains a right on and from the date of registration and/or renewal thereof, he can ordinarily be deprived of his right unless it is shown that the assignment thereof by his holder was not a bona fide one or had been made by way of camouflage.
If the assignee has obtained assignment for bona fide use, he may not be fastened with any liability owing to non-user on the part of his predecessor.
In other words, the mistake of the predecessor should not be visited with non-use of the present registered owner.
It must, however, be observed that whether a use is for bona fide purpose would essentially be a question of fact.
Whether Section 46(1)(b) read with Section 48 of the Act would bring within its purview, not only a registered proprietor but also the proprietor who had otherwise acquired a right would depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case.
If appellant infringed the right of M/s. Jain Industries, it was for it to take action therefor.
First respondent itself accepts that at least immediately prior to the institution of the suit, appellant had been using the same.
We are not concerned herein as to since when it had been doing so.
For one reason or the other, the said order attained finality.
Prima facie, therefore, appellant has been held to be the registered owner of the trade mark.
It is one thing to say that for the purpose of frustrating an application for rectification, the appellant had colluded with its predecessor for the purpose of trafficking by entering into the deed of assignment which is otherwise illegal and bad in law but it is another thing to say that the appellant could be proceeded against alone for non-user of the registered trade mark for a period of more than five years.
For the purpose of making out such a case, both the original registrants as also the assignee were required to be impleaded as parties.
We may, at this stage, notice that in Law of Trade Marks by Mr. KC Kailasam, while commenting on Section 47 of the Trade Marks Act, 1999 to which our attention has been drawn by Mr. Sudhir Chandra, it is stated : The Court while construing a statute takes into consideration the parliamentary intent in amending the provisions thereof.
It seeks to enhance the period of moratorium of use of the registered trade mark from one month to three months so as to prevent speculative assignment.
Thus, a case of speculative assignment is specifically required to be made out.
Such an application may be maintainable in terms of Section 56 of the Act but strictly not in terms of Section 46(1)(b) thereof and that too in the absence of the original registered proprietor.
We are not satisfied with the explanation offered by the first respondent that it gave up the case of non-use of the registered trade mark against M/s Jain Industries on the basis of statement made by the learned counsel for the appellant; firstly because consent does not confer jurisdiction; secondly, because want and/or lack of jurisdiction on the part of the Tribunal cannot be waived as if any order is passed without jurisdiction, the same would be a nullity; and thirdly because the cause of action, even according to the first respondent in his application before the High Court, was different.
The counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant did not state that it had waived its right so far as non-impleadment of M/s Jain Industries was concerned.
It only consented for grant of liberty in favour of the first respondent for filing of an application for the self-same cause of action.
The question of maintainability of the second suit is absence of the registrant proprietor was not and could not have been the subject matter of consent at that stage.
The cause of action which permitted the first respondent to file an application for rectification against M/s. Jain Industries was non-user thereof by it.
Its non-user and rectification of the register could not, in the aforementioned situation, have been tagged with the cause of action, if any, against the appellant.
The second contention of Mr. Sudhir Chandra that the appellant was an infringer of the trade mark is again a question of fact.
The right of the first respondent as a proprietor of the trade mark by reason of a long user is required to be determined vis-`-vis M/s. Jain Industries as also the appellant in the suit filed by it which is pending.
The Board could not, while exercising its jurisdiction under Section 46(1)(b), of the Act proceeded on the basis of such presumption.
It is not correct that no cause of action survived against Jain Industries.
It was not lost by reason of assignment as was contended by the learned counsel.
In the suit, only the competing right of the first respondent qua the appellant can be determined and not a right against M/s. Jain Industries.
Such a right cannot be determined in a proceeding under Section 46(1)(b) of the Act which is restricted to non-user of the registered trade mark.
Both the appellant and the respondent No1 were the infringers of the right of M/s. Jain Industries as it was the registered proprietor of the trade mark in respect of the goods in question, namely, centrifugal pumps.
While interpreting the same, however, certain basic principles of construction of statute must be kept in mind.
Jurisdiction of the Board being dependent on determination of the foundational facts, the same was required to be established on the basis of the averments made in the application and not otherwise.
The right of a registered trade mark is not lost automatically on the expiry of five years and one month.
Whether the registered proprietor of the trade mark had taken recourse to trafficking or not must be determined in an appropriate proceeding.
The principle of `purchaser of a property has a duty to make enquiries', therefore, cannot apply in a case of this nature.
So long as the right to assign a registered trade mark remains valid, once the same is validly assigned, the assignee derives the same right as that of the assignor in terms of the statute.
A title to a trade mark derived on assignment as provided for under the Act cannot be equated with a defective title acquired in any other property as admittedly on the date of assignment, the right of the registered trade mark was not extinguished.
Both the findings of the High Court which we have noticed hereinbefore are findings on question of law and in that view of the matter the contention of Mr. Sudhir Chandra that the merit of the matter is yet to be gone into by the Board cannot be a ground for ignoring the submissions made at the bar.
Our attention has again been drawn to a passage from `Law of Trade marks & Geographical Indications' by Shri KC Kailasam, wherein the judgment of the Tribunal has been criticized in the following terms : We do not think that the approach of the learned author is entirely correct.
If his title is not extinguished by reason of a provision of a statute for non-user of the trade mark for a period of five years, any assignment made shall be valid subject to such situation which we have noticed in paragraph 25 supra.
For the views we have taken, we are of the opinion that the impugned judgment cannot be sustained.
The Board shall, however proceed to determine afresh the application filed by the first in the light of the legal principles explained above.
J. [SB Sinha] .....................................J. [Cyriac Joseph] New Delhi; December 18, 2008