Challenge in this appeal is to the judgment of a Division Bench of the Madhya Pradesh High Court dismissing the writ appeal filed by the appellant on the ground that it was not maintainable.
The appeal was filed under Section 2(1) of the MP Uchacha Nyayalay (Khand Nyaypeth Ko Appeal) Adhiniyam, 2005 (hereinafter referred to as the `Act').
It was held that the order was passed in exercise of power of superintendence under Article 227 of the Constitution of India, 1950 (in short the `Constitution') against which the Letters Patent Appeal is not maintainable.
Against the said order, special leave petition was filed which was disposed of by this Court by order dated 16.2.2006.
The High Court construed as if this Court has only waived the limitation for filing of Letters Patent Appeal and there was no direction to consider the case on merits.
Learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the order of this Court is very clear and the conclusions of the High Court that merely limitation was waived is contrary to the clear terms of the earlier order of this Court.
Additionally it is submitted that the prayer in the Writ Petition was to quash the order passed by the Assistant Commissioner, Commercial Tax.
That being so, the mere fact that the writ petition was styled under Article 227 of the Constitution is of no consequence.
It is the nature of the relief sought for and the controversy involved which determines the Article which is applicable.
Learned counsel for the respondent-State on the other hand supported the impugned judgment of the High Court.
The earlier order passed by this Court dated 2282006 reads as follows: In addition, the High Court seems to have gone by the nomenclature gone by the nomenclature i.e. the discription given in the writ petition to be one under Article 227 of the Constitution.
The High Court did not consider the nature of the controversy and the prayer involved in the Writ petition.
As noted above the prayer was to quash the order of assessment passed by the Assistant Commissioner, Commercial Tax levying purchase as well as Entry Tax.
As noted above the prayer in the Writ Petition was to set aside the decision of the assessing officer.
In the last mentioned case which dealt with the nature of a writ of quo warranto, the Judicial Committee held: By Article 226 the power of issuing prerogative writs possessed by the Chartered High Courts prior to the commencement of the Constitution has been made wider and more extensive and conferred upon every High Court.
The nature of the exercise of the power under Article 226, however, remains the same as in the case of the power of issuing prerogative writs possessed by the Chartered High Courts.
The expression `ancillary' means, in the context, incidental or consequential to the main part of the order.
Thus, the determining factor is the real nature of principal order passed by the Single Judge which is appealed against and neither the mentioning in the cause title of the application of both the articles nor the granting of ancillary orders thereupon made by learned Single Judge would be relevant.
Thus, in each case, the Division Bench may consider the substance of the judgment under appeal to ascertain whether the Single Judge has mainly or principally exercised in the matter his jurisdiction under Article 226 or under Article 227.
In the event in his judgment the learned Single Judge himself had mentioned the particular article of the Constitution under which he was passing his judgment, in an appeal under clause 15 against such a judgment it may not be necessary for the appellate bench to elaborately examine the question of its maintainability.
When without mentioning the particular article the learned Single Judge decided on merits the application, in order to decide the question of maintainability of an appeal, against such a judgment, the Division Bench might examine the relief granted by the learned Single Judge, for maintainability of an appeal, the determination would be the main and not the ancillary relief.
When a combined application under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution is summarily dismissed without reasons, the appeal Court may consider whether the facts alleged, warranted filing of the application under Article 226 or under Article 227 of the Constitution."
Madon, J, speaking for the Court in para 107 of the Report at p. 473, made the following pertinent observations: (SCC p. 473, para 107) "107.
Petitions are at times filed both under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution.
Rule 18 provides that where such petitions are filed against orders of the tribunals or authorities specified in Rule 18 of Chapter XVII of the Appellate Side Rules or against decrees or orders of courts specified in that rule, they shall be heard and finally disposed of by a Single Judge.
The question is whether an appeal would lie from the decision of the Single Judge in such a case.
In our opinion, where the facts justify a party in filing an application either under Article 226 or 227 of the Constitution, and the party chooses to file his application under both these articles, in fairness and justice to such party and in order not to deprive him of the valuable right of appeal the court ought to treat the application as being made under Article 226, and if in deciding the matter, in the final order the court gives ancillary directions which may pertain to Article 227, this ought not to be held to deprive a party of the right of appeal under clause 15 of the Letters Patent where the substantial part of the order sought to be appealed against is under Article 226.
Transport Society Ltd (AIR 1961 Punj 24) and we are in agreement with it."
The aforesaid decision squarely gets attracted on the facts of the present case.
It was open to the respondent to invoke the jurisdiction of the High Court both under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution of India.
Once such a jurisdiction was invoked and when his writ petition was dismissed on merits, it cannot be said that the learned Single Judge had exercised his jurisdiction only under Article 226 (sic 227) of the Constitution of India.
This conclusion directly flows from the relevant averments made in the writ petition and the nature of jurisdiction invoked by the respondent as noted by the learned Single Judge in his judgment, as seen earlier.
Consequently, it could not be said that clause 15 of the Letters Patent was not attracted for preferring appeal against the judgment of the learned Single Judge.
It is also necessary to note that the appellant being the respondent in letters patent appeal joined issues on merits and did not take up the contention that the letters patent appeal was not maintainable.
For all these reasons, therefore, the primary objection to the maintainability of the letters patent appeal as canvassed by learned counsel for the appellant, has to be repelled.
Point 1 is, therefore, answered in the affirmative against the appellant and in favour of the respondent.
It takes us to the consideration of points arising for our decision on merits."
The pleadings, as has been indicated hereinabove, also assume immense significance.
As has been held in the case of Surya Devi Rai (supra) a writ of certiorari can be issued under Article 226 of the Constitution against an order of a Tribunal or an order passed by the sub ordinate court.
In quintessentiality, it cannot be put in a state jacket formula that any order of the learned judge that deals with an order arising from an inferior tribunal or the sub ordinate court is an order under Article 227 of the Constitution of India and not an order under Article 226 of the Constitution.
It would not be an over emphasis to state that an order in a writ petition can fit into the subtle contour of Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution in a composite manner and they can coincide, co-exit, overlap imbricate.
In this context it is apt to note that there may be cases where the learned single judge may feel disposed or inclined to issue a writ to do full and complete justice because it is to be borne in mind that Article 226 of the Constitutions is fundamentally a repository and reservoir of justice based on equity and good conscience.
Thus, there is no manner of doubt that the orders and proceedings of a judicial court subordinate to the High Court are amenable to writ jurisdiction of the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution.
Upon a review of decided cases and a survey of the occasions, wherein the High Courts have exercised jurisdiction to command a writ of certiorari or to exercise supervisory jurisdiction under Article 227 in the given facts and circumstances in a variety of cases, it seems that the distinction between the two jurisdictions stands almost obliterated in practice.
Probably, this is the reason why it has become customary with the lawyers labelling their petitions as one common under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution, though such practice has been deprecated in some judicial pronouncement.
Without entering into niceties and technicality of the subject, we venture to state the broad general difference between the two jurisdictions.
Firstly, the writ of certiorari is an exercise of its original jurisdiction by the High Court; exercise of supervisory jurisdiction is not an original jurisdiction and in this sense it is akin to appellate, revisional or corrective jurisdiction.
Secondly, in a writ of certiorari, the record of the proceedings having been certified and sent up by the inferior court or tribunal to the High Court, the High Court if inclined to exercise its jurisdiction, may simply annul or quash the proceedings and then do no more.
In exercise of supervisory jurisdiction, the High Court may not only quash or set aside the impugned proceedings, judgment or order but it may also make such directions as the facts and circumstances of the case may warrant, maybe, by way of guiding the inferior court or tribunal as to the manner in which it would now proceed further or afresh as commended to or guided by the High Court.
In appropriate cases the High Court, while exercising supervisory jurisdiction, may substitute such a decision of its own in place of the impugned decision, as the inferior court or tribunal should have made.
Lastly, the jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution is capable of being exercised on a prayer made by or on behalf of the party aggrieved; the supervisory jurisdiction is capable of being exercised suo motu as well."
In view of what has been stated above, the High Court was not justified in holding that the Letters Patent Appeal was not maintainable.
In addition, a bare reading of this Court's earlier order shows that the impugned order is clearly erroneous.
The writ appeal shall be heard by the Division Bench on merits.
J (Dr. ARIJIT PASAYAT) .................................J (P. SATHASIVAM) .................................J (AFTAB ALAM) New Delhi, November 3, 2008