Interpretation and/ or application of the provisions of the Gujarat Town Planning and Urban Development Act, 1976 (for short "the Act") and the Rules framed thereunder known as the Gujarat Town Planning and Urban Development Rules, 1979 (for short "the Rules") is in question in this appeal which arises out of a judgment and order dated 27.12.2006 passed by a Division Bench of the High Court of Gujarat at Ahmedabad in Letters Patent Appeal No. 1611 of 2006 arising out of a judgment and order dated 23.11.2006 passed by a learned Single Judge of the said Court in SCA No. 7092 of 2001.
Before embarking upon the issue involved in this appeal, we may notice the admitted fact of the matter.
The Government of Gujarat in exercise of its power conferred upon it under Section 65 of the Act made a scheme in respect of the town of Umra, Surat on 1061999.
Plot Nos. 17/7 and 17/8 were owned by Respondent No. 4 herein.
Appellant was a tenant under the said respondent in respect of Plot No. 17/8 admeasuring 1067 sq.m.
He used to run a business of marble and stone therein.
A road widening project was proposed in terms of the said scheme.
Notices therefor were issued both to the appellant as also the respondent no. Appellant objected thereto.
He, however, did not pursue his case in regard to the proposal for widening of the road.
For the said public purpose, viz., widening of the road, 867 sq.
With a view to give effect to the provisions of the Act and the Rules framed thereunder, proceedings were initiated for allotment of the said land in terms of the Act.
20% of the land was taken over without payment of any compensation.
In respect of the proceedings initiated for the purpose of re-allotment of the land, despite a public notice, the appellant did not file any objection.
Respondent No. 4 was allotted a final plot bearing No. 157 and the said 200 sq.
m. of land of plot No. 17/8 has merged in final plot No. 165 owned by the respondent No. 3.
Respondent No. 1 herein which is the statutory agency in terms of the Act for the purpose of implementation of the Scheme issued a notice under Section 67 of the Act upon the respondent no. 4 on or about 15012000.
As he did not respond thereto, a notice under Section 68 of the Act was served on him on 31.03.2000 stating:  The validity and/ or legality of the said notice was questioned by the appellant by filing a writ petition in the High Court of Gujarat inter alia contending that the purported final allotment of plot No. 165 in favour of the respondent no. 3 and allotment of final plot No. 157 in favour of the respondent no. 4 were made without issuing any notice as envisaged under Sections 52 and 53 of the Act.
In the said writ petition, it was prayed:  A learned Single Judge of the High Court dismissed the said writ petition inter alia opining that the interest of landlord and tenant being common and in absence of any inter se dispute between them even if any portion of the land which remained in possession of the tenant was included in the Scheme, the proper remedy would be to claim compensation to that extent, holding: "18.
It appears that in the said decision, the Apex Court while considering the scheme on the touch- stone of the mandatory procedure to be followed by the authority under the Bombay Town Planning Rules, has given directions to provide alternative accommodation based on the earlier decision in case of Jaswantsingh Mathurasingh and upheld the scheme.
Such is not the issue in the present case nor there is any complaint by the tenant that any special notice was not served or that the mandatory procedure for finalization of the scheme is not followed.
Further, it appears that if the interest of the landlord and of the tenant is common and in absence of any inter se dispute between the landlord and tenant, even if any portion of the land which is in possession of the tenant is included in the scheme, the proper remedy for the tenant would be to claim for compensation to that extent and if such compensation is not received by him, he may resort to proper remedy available for recovery of the compensation to the extent of the area in his occupation.
At least on ground that the tenant is in occupation, it would not be a case for interference with the scheme which is sanctioned and made a part of the statute.
Suffice it to say that the tenant will be at liberty to resort to appropriate proceedings against the landlord for the inter se rights and also for entitlement of the compensation.
But if the area of original plot no. 17/8 is included in the final scheme and in exchange of the original plot held by Keshav Gramini of 17/8 and 17/7, the final plot is already allotted and as observed earlier it was even otherwise in the ownership of the original holder and it is only on account of inter se dispute the other persons are lawfully occupying the land, the tenant cannot insist that his landlord must be allotted the land of final plot no. 157 simultaneously, when he is to be evicted or deprived of the portion of the land of original plot no. 17/8.
Therefore, in my view considering the peculiar facts and circumstances of the present case, the decision of the Apex Court in case of Mansukhlal (supra) cannot be made applicable to the present case."
A Division Bench of the High Court dismissed an intra-court appeal preferred thereagainst.
Mr. Prashant G Desai, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent no. 1, on the other hand, would submit: The Act was enacted to consolidate and amend the law relating to the making and execution of development plans and town planning schemes in the State of Gujarat.
It is not necessary for us to delve deep into the statutory scheme.
Suffice it to say that Chapter IV of the Act deals with control of development and use of land included in the development plans.
Section 40 of the Act empowers the appropriate authority to make one or more schemes.
A declaration of intention to make a scheme is to be notified whereafter a draft scheme may be published.
Section 45 provides for reconstitution of the plots, sub-section (2) whereof inter alia enables allotment of a final plot from an original plot by transfer of any adjoining lands.
Section 52 contemplates issuance of a notice in a prescribed manner and in the prescribed form.
Section 52 of the Act provides for the contents of preliminary and final scheme.
It inter alia provides for giving of a notice by the Town Planning Officer as follows:  Further, Sub-section (3) of Section 65, Sections 67 and 68 of the Act read as under: Rules 26(1), 26(3) and 33 of the Rules read as under: Before embarking upon the rival contentions, we may also notice that the provisions of the Bombay Town Planning Rules, 1955 (for short "the Bombay Rules") are in pari materia with `the Rules'.
Rule 21 of the Bombay Rules provides for the Procedure to be followed by the Town Planning Officer.
It makes it obligatory on the part of the officer to give notice of the date on which he will commence his duties and shall state therein the time, within which the owner of any property or rights which is injuriously affected by the making of the town planning scheme shall be advertised in one or more newspapers published in the regional language and circulating within the jurisdiction of the local authority and shall be posted in prominent places at or near the area comprised in the scheme and at the office of the Town Planning Officer.
Sub-Rule (3) of Rule 21 of the Bombay Rules provides for serving of a Special notice of at least three clear days' upon the person interested in any plot or in any particular area comprised in the scheme, before the Town Planning Officer proceeds to deal in detail with the portion of the scheme relating thereto.
Sub-Rule (4) makes it imperative upon the Town Planning Officer to "give all persons affected by any particular (sic) of the scheme sufficient opportunity of stating their views and shall not give any decision till he has duly considered their representations, if any".
Sub-Rule (5) provides for recording a brief minute setting out the points at issue and the necessary particulars if during the proceedings, it appears to the Town Planning Officer that there are conflicting claims or any difference of opinion with regard to any part of the scheme.
Rules 26 of the Rules do not contemplate service of individual notice.
It prescribes service of notice in Form H. A copy of the notice in the said Form is kept at the office of the Town Planning Officer during office hours.
Any person affected by the proposal of the Town Planning Scheme is entitled to inspect the Scheme in the office where arrangements for explaining the scheme proposals are made.
It furthermore provides that any person entitled to claim damages in terms of Section 82 of the Act should communicate the details of his claim to the Town Planning Officer.
Section 81 of the Act enables the State to transfer of right from original to final plot or extinction of such right.
A Town Planning Scheme, therefore, envisages calling for objection from the persons concerned for three purposes: We may, however, notice that Rule 21 of the Bombay Rules provides for notice under Sub-rule (3) thereof and a reasonable opportunity of hearing under Sub-Rule (5) thereof.
Sub-rule (3) of Rule 21 of the Bombay Rules provides for issuance of a special notice upon the person interested in any plot or in any particular plot comprised in the Scheme.
We may also take notice of the decision of this Court in Mansukhlal Jadavji Darji (supra) wherein this Court opined that Sub-rule (3) of Rule 21 of the Bombay Rules was mandatory in nature, subject, of course, to the condition that on the crucial date, viz., when the Town Planning Scheme is notified in the official gazette, he, whether an owner or tenant or sub-tenant, must be in possession of the property.
In Jaswantsingh Mathurasingh (supra), it was reiterated that a tenant or a sub-tenant is a person interested and is entitled to notice.
In that context, it was held: Rule 21(3), however, of the Bombay Rules has been amended in tune with Rule 26 of the Rules.
Amended rules are in pari materia with Rule 26 of the Rules.
They were separated not only by a road but also by various other plots.
It is also not in dispute that the appellant filed an objection in regard to the draft scheme but did not eventually pursue the same.
m. of land had been acquired for public purpose out of the said plot No. 17/8.
While the proceedings relating to allotment of final plot were in progress, he even did not file any objection thereto.
If he intended to claim any interest in a portion of plot No. 17/8 either for the purpose of obtaining compensation for acquisition of a part of the land or to continue to have possession over 200 sq.
m. of land in plot No. 17/8, it was obligatory on his part to take part in the proceedings.
Whether irrespective of Rule 26 of the Rules which prescribes for issuance of a general public notice, any special notice upon the appellant was required to be served by the State or by the authority, in our opinion, cannot be gone into by us in these proceedings for the first time.
Validity of Rule 26 of the Rules had never been questioned.
It had also not been contended that the said Rule is ultra vires Section 52 of the Act.
A person interested in continuing to keep possession over a property and/ or a part of the amount of compensation must lay his claim before the appropriate authority at the appropriate stage.
If in absence of any such claim filed by the appellant, the authorities have proceeded to finalise allotment of final plot in favour of the respondent Nos. 3 and 4 herein, it is too late in the day to contend that the entire scheme should be re-opened.
We would consider the effect of Sub-section (3) of Section 65 of the Act a little later, but, we may at this juncture notice that the respondent No. 3 in whose favour plot No. 165 has been allotted which includes 200 sq.
m. of land purported to be in possession of the appellant had nothing to do with the dispute between the appellant and his landlord the respondent no. 4.
Respondent No. 4 was owner of both plot Nos. 17/7 and 17/8.
He was, therefore, in his own right entitled to final allotment of some plot.
We would, however, assume that it was obligatory on the part of the State to serve a special notice upon the appellant.
The question, however, would be : what would be the consequence of non-compliance thereof vis-`- vis the conduct of the appellant himself?
A person may waive a right either expressly or by necessary implication.
He may in a given case disentitle himself from obtaining an equitable relief particularly when he allows a thing to come to an irreversible situation.
The Bangalore Development Authority Act, 1976 provides that every person whose name appears in the assessment list or land revenue records shall be served with notice.
We have referred to the said decisions only to show that the requirements in regard to the manner of service of notice varies from statute to statute and there exists a difference between the Bombay Rules and the Rules.
We are, however, not unmindful of the fact that a statute of town planning ex facie is not a statute for acquisition of a property.
An owner of a plot is asked to part therewith only for providing for better facilities of which he would also be a beneficiary.
Every step taken by the State does not involve application of the doctrine of eminent domain.
In this case, the appellant did not oppose the draft scheme.
It accepted that the State had a right to do so.
Existence of a public purpose and increase in the valuation of the property was admitted.
There exists a distinction in the action of the planning authority as regards vesting of a property in it and one so as to enable it to create a third party interest vis-`- vis for the purpose of re-allotment thereof.
In the former case, the vesting of the land may be held to be an act of acquisition, whereas in the latter, it would be distribution of certain benefits having regard to the purpose sought to be achieved by a statute involving town planning.
Section 67 of the Act provides that all lands required by the appropriate authority shall, unless it is otherwise determined in such scheme, vest absolutely in the appropriate authority free from all encumbrances with effect from the date on which the preliminary scheme comes into force.
What would be the quantum of payment of compensation therefor is also provided in Section 82 of the Act.
It is in the aforementioned situation, a claim is to be made before the authority whenever a notice in Form H is published.
If a claim is not filed, the person, who is said to be injuriously affected, does so at its own peril.
Had such a claim been filed, the authority before making final allotment could have considered the competing claims wherefor a large number of factors were required to be taken into consideration, viz., the location of the land, the area of the land, the nature of right, etc.
When a statute makes an elaborate provision as regards the formalities required to be undergone at every stage by the local authority, the State Government and other authorities concerned in preparing and making the final Town Planning Scheme, the same should be considered to be exhaustively.
It is not a case where the State by its acts of omissions and commissions was unjustly enriching itself.
It was a dispute between two private parties as regards the right to obtain final allotment; the principles underlying the same are not in dispute.
What is in dispute is the distribution of quantum thereof between two competing claimants, viz., landlord and tenant.
We do not mean to say that under no circumstances the appellant was entitled to allotment of a portion of the property or mandatory compensation in lieu thereof from the landlord.
But, we intend to emphasise that he has lost his right to enforce the same in a public law forum.
He has no enforceable claim against the State at this juncture.
He may pursue his claim only against the respondent No. 4 in an appropriate proceedings wherein for certain purposes the State or the authorities may also be impleaded as a party.
Even if he had a claim he would be deemed to have waived the same for the reasons stated hereinafter.
It is not in dispute that:   In view of the above, the issue is whether it was open to him to assert his purported right to special notice in respect of the final allotment in the instant case given the fact that he did not pursue his objections to the draft scheme and subsequently did not object/participate during the proceedings for re-allotment.
It has been noticed by us hereinbefore that under Rule 26 of the Rules applicable in the instant case, as distinguished from the Bombay Rules (wherein special notice is required), no special notice is mandatorily required to be served.
Assuming, however, that it was obligatory for the State to issue notice to the appellant, the question is whether the principle of waiver precludes him from claiming equitable relief in this case due to his earlier conduct which allowed the entire process of acquisition and allotment to become final.
We are of the opinion that even if he had any such right, he waived the same.
It was stated:  The legal principle emerging from these decisions is also stated in Craies on Statute Law (6th Edn.)
Such conduct precludes and operates as estoppel against him with respect to asserting a right over a portion of the acquired land in a situation where the scheme in question has attained finality following as a result of the appellant's inaction.
Mr. Lalit submits that his client is ready and willing to pay some reasonable amount to the respondent No. 3 in whose favour plot No. 165 has been finally allotted.
Issuance of any such direction, in our opinion, is legally impermissible.
We, therefore, are of the opinion that in this case, no relief can be granted to the appellant.
He may, however, take recourse to such remedy which is available with him in law including one by filing a suit or making a representation before the State.