P Sathasivam, J ) This appeal is directed against the final judgment and order dated 03.10.2007 passed by the High Court of Judicature, Andhra Pradesh at Hyderabad in Criminal Appeal No. 436 of 2001 whereby the High Court dismissed the appeal filed by the appellant herein and confirmed the judgment dated 19.03.2001 passed by the Special Judge, CBI Cases, Visakhapatnam in CC No.2 of 1998. )
Brief facts: (a) The appellant-accused was working as a Head Clerk in the Traffic Cadre Section in the Office of the Senior Divisional Personnel Officer, South Central Railway, Vijayawada during the period from April, 1992 to November, 1997.
The nature of duties of the appellant-accused included dealing with and processing of the matters like promotions, transfers, seniority list, roster list, pay fixation on promotions, retirements, resignations etc. of the personnel.
b) One K. Rama Rao-the Complainant, who was examined as PW-1, was posted as Yard Points Man, Grade `A' under Station Superintendent, South Central Railway, Tanuku from December, 1995 to June, 1997.
In June, 1997, due to excess staff at Tanuku, he was instructed to report at Head Quarters, Vijayawada and accordingly, when he reported there, he was asked to go back to Tanuku.
Thereafter, he went back to Tanuku from where he was subsequently transferred to Rajahmundry.
Thereafter, PW-1 made a representation to his senior officer requesting him for posting at Vijayawada, Cheerala, Vetapalam or Tenali.
(c) As the appellant-accused was dealing with the transfers, the complainant (PW-1) met him on 05111997 at his office to pursue about the issuance of the said transfer order.
When he met him on 10111997, the appellant asked him to come on the next day as he was busy in pay-fixation work.
On 11111997, again he went to the office of the appellant but he could not find him on his seat.
Again a day after i.e. on 13111997, when he met the appellant-accused, he informed him that his request for transfer has been processed and the order is ready and the same has been placed before the APO for signature and asked him to come on the next day, i.e., on 14111997, and demanded Rs.200/- for releasing the said office order.
(d) On the same day, (PW-1) reported the matter in writing to the Inspector of Police, Central Bureau of Investigation (in short `the CBI), Vijayawada.
On 14111997, a trap was laid by the CBI officials along with panchas and when the accused demanded and accepted a sum of Rs.200/- as illegal gratification, he was caught red handed along with the money which was recovered from the right hand side pocket of his pant.
(e) On 15111997, at 730 am, an FIR was registered by the Inspector, CBI, Visakhapatnam Branch in Crime No. RC 20(A)/97-VSP.
After recording the statements of the witnesses, Inspector of Police, CBI, Visakhapatnam filed charge sheet being No. 2/98-YTR dated 29041998 against the appellant-accused for an offence punishable under Sections 7, 13(1)(d)(ii) read with Section 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 (hereinafter referred to as "the Act") in the Court of Special Judge for CBI Cases at Visakhapatnam.
(f) The Special Judge, CBI, by order dated 19.03.2001, convicted the appellant and sentenced him to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of six months and to pay a fine of Rs.500/- and, in default, to suffer simple imprisonment for one month for the offence punishable under Section 7 of the Act and one year rigorous imprisonment with a fine of Rs.500/- and, in default, to suffer simple imprisonment for one month for the offence punishable under Sections 13(1)(d) (ii) read with Section 13(2) of the Act.
(g) Against the said order, the appellant-accused filed Criminal Appeal No. 436 of 2001 before the High Court of Andhra Pradesh.
The High Court, by impugned judgment dated 03.10.2007 dismissed the appeal filed by the appellant- accused and confirmed the conviction passed by the trial Court.
Hence, the appellant-accused has preferred this appeal by way of special leave petition before this Court. )
Heard Mr. ATM Rangaramanujam, learned senior counsel for the appellant and Mr. Harish Chandra, learned senior counsel for the respondent.
Notice only on quantum of sentence-hearing on all aspects-Permissibility: ) On 28012008, this Court consisting of three Hon'ble Judges issued notice in this matter confining to the quantum of sentence only.
In pursuance of the same, we permitted Mr. Rangaramanujam, learned senior counsel for the appellant to address his arguments confining to quantum of sentence imposed on the appellant-accused.
As stated in the narration of facts, the appellant was convicted under Section 7 of the Act for which he was sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for six months and to pay a fine of Rs. 500/-, in default, simple imprisonment for one month.
He was also convicted for the offence under Section 13(1)(d)(ii) read with Section 13(2) of the Act and sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for one year and fine of Rs.500/-, in default, simple imprisonment for one month.
The trial Court ordered that both the sentences of imprisonment shall run concurrently.
The said conviction and sentence was affirmed by the High Court.
If we confine ourselves to the limited extent of notice dated 28012008, we have to hear both sides only on the quantum of sentence.
In the reported case, the appeal was against the concurrent finding of both the courts convicting the appellant under Section 302 IPC and sentencing him to suffer imprisonment for life.
At the SLP stage, this Court, by order dated 27072009, issued notice confined only to the question as to whether the petitioner was guilty of commission of an offence under any of the parts of Section 304 Indian Penal Code, 1860 (in short `IPC') and not under Section 302 IPC.
Similar request was made before the Bench that the appellant was entitled to urge all the questions including his right to urge that he should have been acquitted in the facts and circumstances of the case.
This Court, referred to the Supreme Court Rules, 1966 which have been framed under Article 145 of the Constitution and also considered scope of its power under Article 142 as well as Order 47 Rule 6 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (in short `the Code).
While deciding the said question, the Bench has also considered the scope of Section 100 of the Code for entertaining the second appeal.
It further shows that the Court considered the plea of the appellant therein for acquittal despite the fact that the notice was limited in terms of the order dated 27072009.
It is relevant to point out that the Bench in para 15, clarified the position and reopened the case in its entirety even though notice was issued confining to a particular aspect.
After permitting the appellant therein to argue the case for acquittal on merits, it observed: open the case as if they are free to do the same without any restriction.
As a matter of fact, the last sentence in para 15 makes it clear that in the facts and circumstances of that case, they permitted the appellants to urge all points on merits. )
In the case on hand, it is to be noted that on appreciation of oral and documentary evidence led in by the prosecution and the defence and on appreciation of entire materials, the court of first instance i.e. the trial Court convicted the appellant and sentenced him as mentioned above.
The High Court, as an appellate Court, once again analysed all the material, discussed the oral and documentary evidence and finding that the prosecution had proved the guilt of the accused beyond reasonable doubt concurred with the conclusion arrived at by the trial Court and dismissed the appeal of the appellant.
Inasmuch as both the courts have thoroughly discussed the oral and documentary evidence with reference to the charges leveled against the appellant and in view of the limited order dated 28012008 by this Court issuing notice confining to quantum of sentence only and even applying the analogy enunciated in Yomeshbhai (supra), we feel that it is not a case of such nature that the appellant should be heard on all points, consequently, we reject the request of the learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant.
Quantum of sentence/Whether requires any reduction: ) Mr. Rangaramanujam, learned senior counsel for the appellant submitted that inasmuch as the alleged incident took place on 14111997 and 14 years have elapsed since then, the amount of Rs. 200/- said to have been received by the appellant is trivial in nature and also of the fact that due to the said conviction and sentence he lost his job, leniency may be shown and sentence be reduced to the period already undergone.
He fairly admitted that out of the maximum period of one year, the appellant had served only 52 days in prison.
With this factual position, let us consider whether the request of the learned senior counsel for the appellant is to be accepted and sentence be reduced to the period already undergone. )
It is not in dispute that the provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 alone are applicable since the incident occurred on 14111997 i.e. subsequent to the Act.
Section 7 of the Act relates to public servant taking gratification other than legal remuneration in respect of an official act.
If the said offence/charge is proved, the court has no other option but to impose sentence of imprisonment which shall be not less than six months but which may extend to five years and also liable to fine.
It is true that even in the cited decision, the appellant accused demanded only Rs. 250/- and it was paid and accepted.
Finally, the Special Judge framed charges for offence punishable under Sections 7, 12, 13(1)(d) read with Section 13(2) of the Act.
The appellant therein was convicted for offence under Section 7(2) of the Act and appeal before the High Court was also dismissed.
This Court, after holding that the conclusion of the trial Court and High Court does not suffer from any infirmity considered the alternative submission which related to harshness of sentence.
In that case, taking note of the fact that the occurrence took place nearly seven years back and also of the fact that the appellant had suffered custody for more than six months, considering all these aspects, while maintaining the conviction, this Court reduced the sentence to the period already undergone.
Since the appellant therein was convicted only under Section 7 and Section 161 Cr.PC., the minimum sentence being six months and of the fact that he had suffered custody for more than six months, the course adopted by this Court is perfectly in order and the same cannot be applied to the case on hand, wherein the appellant had undergone only 52 days when the minimum sentence was six months under Section 7 and one year under Section 13. )
Learned senior counsel for the appellant further submitted that inasmuch as the incident had occurred on 14111997 and the trial Court has convicted him on 19.03.2001 which was affirmed by the High Court on 03.10.2007, at this juncture, i.e., after a gap of 14 years, there is no need to retain the same sentence and the Court is not justified in directing the appellant to serve the remaining period after such a long time.
There is no dispute as regards the date of occurrence and the date of conviction passed by the trial court and affirmed by the High Court.
Inasmuch as the conviction on both counts have been confirmed by this Court and we are confined to sentence part alone and in view of the minimum sentence prescribed under Sections 7 and 13 of the Act, we are of the view that though long delay may be a ground for reduction of sentence in other cases, the same may not be applicable to the case on hand when the statute prescribes minimum sentence.
It was further contended that the amount alleged to have been received by the appellant accused is only Rs.200/- and he also lost his job after conviction by the trial court.
Though, these grounds may be attractive in respect of other offences where minimum sentence is not prescribed, in view of our reasonings in the earlier paras, the same cannot be applied to the case on hand. )
The facts in that case are that the parties by persuasion of the family members and friends, entered into a compromise and prepared a memorandum of understanding dated 13112009, in the proceedings pending before the Mediation Centre, Delhi, by which they agreed on terms and conditions incorporated therein, to settle all their disputes and also for dissolution of their marriage.
The parties filed an application under Section 13-B(1) of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 before the Family Court, Delhi seeking divorce by mutual consent.
The said HMA No. 456 of 2009 came before the court and it recorded the statement of parties on 16112009.
The parties moved another HMA No. 457 of 2009 to waive the statutory period of six months in filing the second petition.
Speaking for the Bench one of us - (Dr. Justice BS Chauhan) referred to more than fifty decisions including the Constitution Bench judgments.
In Anil Kumar Jain, this Court held that an order of waiving the statutory requirements can be passed only by this Court in exercise of its powers under Article 142 of the Constitution.
Generally, no court has competence to issue a direction contrary to law nor can the court direct an authority to act in contravention of the statutory provisions.
The courts are meant to enforce the rule of law and not to pass the orders or directions which are contrary to what has been injected by law.
AIR 1963 SC 996 held as under: (AIR p. , para 12) "12.
... An order which this Court can make in order to do complete justice between the parties, must not only be consistent with the fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution, but it cannot even be inconsistent with the substantive provisions of the relevant statutory laws ."
(emphasis supplied) The Constitution Benches of this Court in Supreme Court Bar Assn.
It is not to be exercised in a case where there is no basis in law which can form an edifice for building up a superstructure.
... sympathy or sentiment by itself cannot be a ground for passing an order in relation whereto the appellants miserably fail to establish a legal right.
... despite an extraordinary constitutional jurisdiction contained in Article 142 of the Constitution of India, this Court ordinarily would not pass an order which would be in contravention of a statutory provision."
The power under Article 142 of the Constitution is a constitutional power and hence, not restricted by statutory enactments.
Though the Supreme Court would not pass any order under Article 142 of the Constitution which would amount to supplanting substantive law applicable or ignoring express statutory provisions dealing with the subject, at the same time these constitutional powers cannot in any way, be controlled by any statutory provisions.
However, it is to be made clear that this power cannot be used to supplant the law applicable to the case.
This means that acting under Article 142, the Supreme Court cannot pass an order or grant relief which is totally inconsistent or goes against the substantive or statutory enactments pertaining to the case.
The power is to be used sparingly in cases which cannot be effectively and appropriately tackled by the existing provisions of law or when the existing provisions of law cannot bring about complete justice between the parties."
(Emphasis added) After elaborately discussing almost all the case laws on this subject about jurisdiction of this Court under Article 142, in para 19, summarised the same in the following words: After saying so, the Court rejected the request of the parties to waive the statutory period of six months under the Act. )
The very nature of the power must lead the court to set limits for itself within which to exercise those powers and ordinarily it cannot disregard a statutory provision governing a subject, except perhaps to balance the equities between the conflicting claims of the litigating parties by "ironing out the creases" in a cause or matter before it.
Indeed this Court is not a court of restricted jurisdiction of only dispute settling.
It is well recognised and established that this Court has always been a law maker and its role travels beyond merely dispute settling.
Indeed, these constitutional powers can not, in any way, be controlled by any statutory provisions but at the same time these powers are not meant to be exercised when their exercise may come directly in conflict with what has been expressly provided for in statute dealing expressly with the subject.
These powers also exist independent of the statutes with a view to do complete justice between the parties...and are in the nature of supplementary powers...[and] may be put on a different and perhaps even wider footing than ordinary inherent powers of a court to prevent injustice.
The advantage that is derived from a constitutional provision couched in such a wide compass is that it prevents 'clogging or obstruction of the stream of justice.
See: Supreme Court Bar Association (supra) ) Though the jurisdiction of this Court, under Article 142 of the Constitution of India is not in dispute, we make it clear that exercise of such power would, however, depend on the facts and circumstances of each case.
The High Court, in exercise of its jurisdiction, under Section 482 of the Criminal Procedure Code and this Court, under Article 142 of the Constitution, would not ordinarily direct quashing of a case involving crime against the society particularly, when both the trial Court as also the High Court have found that the charge leveled against the appellant under the Act has been made out and proved by the prosecution by placing acceptable evidence. )
Finally, learned senior counsel for the appellant has cited certain orders of this Court wherein this Court has reduced the period of sentence already undergone while upholding the conviction.
The orders do not disclose any factual details and the relevant provisions under which the accused was charged/convicted and minimum sentence, if any, as available in the Act as well as the period already undergone.
In the absence of such details, we are unable to rely on those orders. )
From the analysis of the above decisions and the concerned provisions with which we are concerned, the following principles emerge: c) In a case of corruption by public servant, quantum of amount is immaterial.
Ultimately it depends upon the conduct of the delinquent and the proof regarding demand and acceptance established by the prosecution.
d) Merely because the delinquent lost his job due to conviction under the Act may not be a mitigating circumstance for reduction of sentence, particularly, when the Statute prescribes minimum sentence.
e) Though Article 142 of the Constitution gives wider power to this Court, waiver of certain period as prescribed in the Statute imposing lesser sentence than the minimum prescribed is not permissible.
f) An order, which this Court can make in order to do complete justice between the parties, must not only be consistent with the fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution, but also it cannot even be inconsistent with the substantive provisions of the relevant Statute.
In other words, this Court cannot altogether ignore the substantive provisions of a Statute.
g) In exercise of the power under Article 142 of the Constitution, this Court generally does not pass an order in contravention of or ignoring the statutory provisions nor is the power exercised merely on sympathy.
h) The power under Article 142 of the Constitution is a constitutional power and not restricted by statutory enactments.
However, this Court would not pass any order under Article 142 which would amount to supplant the substantive law applicable or ignoring statutory provisions dealing with the subject.
In other words, acting under Article 142, this Court cannot pass an order or grant relief which is totally inconsistent or goes against the substantive or statutory enactments pertaining to the case.
i) The powers under Article 142 are not meant to be exercised when their exercise may come directly in conflict with what has been expressly provided for in statute dealing expressly with the subject. )
In the light of the above discussion, we are unable to accept any of the contentions raised by the learned senior counsel for the appellant, on the other hand, we are in entire agreement with the conclusion arrived at by the trial Judge as affirmed by the High Court.
Since the appellant is on bail, the bail bonds executed by him stand cancelled.
The trial Judge is directed to secure his presence for serving the remaining period of sentence.
J (P. SATHASIVAM) ...........................................J (DR. BS CHAUHAN) NEW DELHI; SEPTEMBER 23, 2011