Swatanter Kumar, J Accused Pathan Hussain Basha, was married to Pathan Haseena Begum (now deceased) on 23rd June, 2002 at Guntur.
At the time of marriage, it was promised that a dowry of Rs. 25,000/-, besides other formalities, would be paid by the side of the wife to the husband.
Out of this amount, a sum of Rs. 15,000/- was paid at that time and it was promised that the balance dowry of Rs. 10,000/- would be paid in the month of October, 2002, upon which the marriage was performed.
The father of the bride could not pay the balance amount within time, because he lacked the resources.
The accused Pathan Hussain Basha, his father Pathan Khadar Basha, and mother Pathan Nazeer Abi forced her to get the balance amount of dowry.
Despite such pressure, she was not able to get that money from her family.
It is the case of the prosecution that for non-payment of dowry, the accused persons harassed the deceased and subjected her to cruelty.
This was informed by the deceased to various persons, including her relatives and elders.
She was unable to bear the cruelty to which she was subjected, by the accused persons.
On 15th February, 2003, at about 11 am, the deceased committed suicide by hanging herself in the house of the accused.
When Pathan Basheerunnisa, LW3 returned from her work, the accused sent her out giving her money to bring the soaps upon which she went out and when she came back, she found the accused absent and the bride hanging in the house.
Subsequently, LW-3 Pathan Basheerunnisa sent her grandson Pathan Inayatullah Khan, LW-4 to the house of the parents of the deceased to inform them about the incident.
When the parents of the deceased came to the house of the accused and found the deceased hanging from the beam with a saree, they untied her and took her to the Government General Hospital, Guntur hoping that the deceased may be alive.
However, upon medical examination by the doctor, she was declared brought dead.
The father of the deceased Pathan Yasin Khan, LW-1 and her mother Pathan Shamshad Begum, LW-2 were present at that time.
LW-1, lodged the report, which was registered by Sri K Srinivasarao, LW-16, the Sub- Inspector of Police.
The FIR was registered under Section 304B and Section 498A of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (for short the “IPC”).
He inspected the site from where he recovered and seized the saree that had been used for hanging.
This was done in the presence of LW-10 and LW-11, Shaik Ibrahim and Mohd.
Thereupon, the body was sent for post-mortem examination through Constable P Venkateswara Reddy, LW-15.
LW-13, Dr. M Madhusudana Reddy conducted autopsy over the body of the deceased and prepared post-mortem certificate giving the cause of death as asphyxia, as a result of hanging.
On 16th February, 2003, at about 5 pm, Investigating Officer arrested all the three accused persons.
They faced the trial and were convicted by learned Sixth Additional Munsif Magistrate, Guntur for committing an offence under Sections 498A and 304B IPC.
They were committed to the Court of Sessions, Guntur Division, Guntur for such an offence.
They faced the trial and the learned Sessions Judge vide its judgment dated 4th October, 2004 found them guilty of the said offences and punished them as follows:- The judgment dated 4th October, 2004 passed by the learned Trial Court was challenged in appeal before the High Court.
The High Court of Andhra Pradesh, vide its judgment dated 26th October, 2006, while allowing the appeal in part, convicted accused Nos1 and 2 for the aforementioned offences, however, acquitted accused No. 3, namely, Pathan Khadar Basha.
First and the foremost, we must consider what is the evidence led by the prosecution to bring home the guilt of accused.
Accused were charged with offences under Sections 498A and 304B of the IPC.
The FIR in the present case was lodged by LW-1, who is the father of the deceased.
According to this witness, on 23rd January, 2002, the marriage of his daughter was solemnised with accused Pathan Hussain Basha and he had accepted to give Rs. 25,000/- in marriage.
He had given only Rs. 15,000/- and had agreed to pay Rs. 10,000/-, after four months.
This witness has further specifically stated that the said accused treated his daughter in a proper manner for about two months.
In the marriage, he had also given a gold chain, a double bed, an iron safe and other items.
He had called his son-in-law, accused No. 1, to his house, as per custom, at that point the accused demanded a ceiling fan.
A ceiling fan was lying with the witness and he gave that to his son in law, however, he protested the same on the ground that the old fan is not acceptable to him and he would like to have a new fan, which was bought for Rs. 650/- by the witness and given to his son-in-law.
When he again invited his son-in-law and the mother-in-law of his daughter, even then he had gifted some presents to them.
The accused asked for Rs. 1,000/- with a ring for the deceased.
The witness could pay only Rs. 500/- upon which the accused refused to take the deceased to the matrimonial home and went away.
Subsequently, the mother-in-law of the deceased, again, demanded the balance dowry amount of Rs. 10,000/-, which he could not pay.
His daughter, after the Ramzan festival, had informed him that the accused persons were harassing her and were even beating and abusing her.
All three accused used to beat her for the remaining amount of dowry.
On 15th February, 2003, a boy had come to him and told him that his daughter had died by hanging herself, whereupon he went to the house of the accused and found that his daughter was hanged to a wooden beam with a saree and she was dead.
The saree was removed, she was taken to the hospital where she was reported to have ‘brought dead’.
The statement of this witness i.e. LW-1 is corroborated by LW-3 and LW-7.
It is stated by LW-3 that she knew all the accused persons as she was residing in the house of the accused and the deceased.
According to this witness also, in the beginning they were happy, however after some time, she used to hear some quarrel between the deceased and the accused persons.
Accused No. 2, Pathan Nazeer Abi had given her some amount and asked her to go and bring the soaps.
After bringing the soaps, she went to the house of the accused persons and found that the accused was absent and the deceased was hanging on one side of the room.
After seeing this, she raised cries and people came to the scene.
LW-4, Pathan Inayatullah Khan, the grandson of LW-3, went to the house of the parents of the deceased and informed them about the unfortunate incident.
LW-7 stated on oath that he was present at the time of giving of dowry to the accused by the family of the deceased.
He confirmed the fact that Rs. 15,000/- was given at the time of marriage and Rs. 10,000/- was to be given within some time, which the father of the deceased failed to provide.
According to him, the accused persons used to harass the deceased primarily for non-payment of the amount of dowry, as a result of which, she was forced to commit suicide.
In fact, there is no dispute to the fact that the deceased died of hanging.
Dr. M Madhusudana Reddy, LW-13 who was the Associate Professor in Forensic Medicine at Guntur Medical College, performed the post-mortem over the body of the deceased.
In the medical report, LW13, he noticed “Oblique ligature mark of 17 x 25 cm present over front and left sides of neck” as well as noticed “Abrasion 15 x 1 cm present over lower part of middle of chin.” Injuries were found to be antemortem in nature, and the cause of death was stated to be asphyxia, as a result of hanging LW-14 is a witness to the seizure of the body and she noticed injuries on the body of the deceased.
From the above evidence, it is clear that the dowry demands were being raised by the accused persons persistently from the family of the deceased and for that they even harassed the deceased, by beating and abusing her.
She had informed her parents of the ill-treatment and the cruelty inflicted on her for non- giving of dowry.
The period intervening between the marriage and the death of the deceased is very small.
They were married in the year 2002 and she committed suicide by hanging on 15th February, 2003.
The witnesses, including LW-1 have stated that for the first few months they were happy, but thereafter, there were quarrels between the accused and the deceased.
Accused Pathan Hussain Basha, when he had gone to the parental house of the deceased, demanded different items like fan, ring and Rs. 1,000/- in cash, and the balance of the agreed dowry amount.
Since, these demands were not satisfied instantaneously, he even left the deceased at her parental house.
At this stage, it will be appropriate for us to examine as to what are the ingredients of an offence punishable under Section 304B of the IPC.
Amongst others, lapse of time between the date of marriage and the date of death is also a relevant consideration for the Court while examining whether the essential ingredients of the provision are satisfied or not in a given case.
By a deeming fiction in law, the onus shifts on to the accused to prove as to how the deceased died.
It is for the accused to show that the death of the deceased did not result from any cruelty or demand of dowry by the accused persons.
The accused did not care to explain as to how the death of his wife occurred.
Onus has to be discharged by leading proper and cogent evidence.
It was expected of the accused to explain as to how and why his wife died, as well as his conduct immediately prior and subsequent to the death of the deceased.
Maintaining silence cannot be equated to discharge of onus by the accused.
In the present case, the prosecution by reliable and cogent evidence has established the guilt of the accused.
There being no rebuttal thereto, there is no occasion to interfere in the judgments of the courts under appeal.
The High Court acquitted Pathan Khadar Basha, the father-in-law of the deceased, as there was no direct evidence against him.
His acquittal has not been challenged by the State before us, thus, we are not called upon to discuss this aspect of the matter.
Accused Pathan Hussain Basha and Pathan Nazeer Abi have rightly been found guilty of the offence by the courts.
While we see no reason to differ with the concurrent findings recorded by the trial court and the High Court, we do see some substance in the argument raised on behalf of the appellants that keeping in view the prosecution evidence, the attendant circumstances, the age of the accused and the fact that they have already being in jail for a considerable period, the Court may take lenient view as far as the quantum of sentence is concerned.
The offences having been proved against the accused and keeping in view the attendant circumstances, we are of the considered view that ends of justice would be met, if the punishment awarded to the appellants is reduced.
………...….…………......................J (Swatanter Kumar) ………...….…………......................J. (Fakkir Mohamed Ibrahim Kalifulla) New Delhi, August 16, 2012